Cooperative Differential Games Here we shall consider cooperative play in the sense of Pareto. In particular, we shall restate the definitions and results of Chapter 1 as they apply to the situation discussed in Chapter 2. The definition of Pareto-optimality, Definition 1.1, becomes Erratum to: Two-Person Zero-Sum Games  Dynamical Systems We shall be concerned with a dynamical system that is a subset of the universe defined by its state, a set of n real numbers, x ∈ Rn, which change in a prescribed manner with the passing of time t (−∞,∞)(*). The evolution of the state is influenced, or as we say controlled, by N agents whom we shall call players. In particular, we shall deal with a dynamical system whose behavior is governed by ordinary differential equations,the state equations. Two-Person Zero-Sum Games As discussed in Section 1.3, two-person zero-sum games constitute an important class of Nash equilibrium games. Differential games of this class have been extensively treated, for instance in Refs. 5.1–5.4; here we shall only give those results which arise directly from specializing the N-person nonzero-sum case. Introduction We shall be concerned with games involving a number of players. The rules of the game assign to each player a cost function of all the players’decisions as well as the sets from which these decisions may be selected. Non—Cooperative Differential Games Here we shall consider non-cooperative play in the sense of Nash. Again, we shall restate the definitions and results of Chapter 1 as they apply to the situation discussed in Chapter 2. Continuous Control of Intravascular Pco2 and Reflexogenic Effects of Carbon Dioxide on the Pulmo-Cardio-Vascular System in situ For the realization of the Pco2 probes we took the greatest account of the concepts and macro-electrodes of Dole [1952], Severinghaus and Bradley [1958], Bates [1961], Stow and Randall [1954], Stow, Baer, and Randall [1957], and Gertz and Loeschcke [1958]; and of the medium size Pco2 electrode of Hertz and Siesjö [1959]. In fact our catheterizable probes are miniaturization and improvements of the realizations of the preceding authors. Since 1954, when Stow and Randall gave the principle of measuring Pco2 with a pH electrode using a selective membrane for gases (rubber), and since 1957, when Stow, Baer, and Randall built the first macro-Pco2 electrode in which the reference electrode was a wire of chloridized silver, and since Gertz and Loeschcke in 1958 used a polyethylene membrane instead of the rubber membrane of Stow and collaborators, we moved from an electrode of 2-cm outer diameter to our probe of 1.5-mm outer diameter, and from unstable measurements with a response time lying between 3 and 5 min to the catheterizable Pco2 probes which show the following performances:Our probe of the second generation is largely insensitive to temperature change between 20 and 40°C; the probe of the third generation is sensitive to temperature change, but because of the rectilinearity: Millivoltage versus Celsius (where ∆E belongs to the Ag/AgCl electrode)—if the local temperature, where the electrode is located, is simultaneously known, for a ∆E/∆T~0.6 mv/C between 20 and 40°C—it is easy without thermic regulation, to utilize correctly the probe (cf. also Bradley et al. [1956]).