Management of statically modifiable Prolog code The Warren Abstract Machine is an efficient execution model for Prolog, which has become the basis of many high performance Prolog systems. However, little support for the implementation of the non-logical components of Prolog is provided in the WAM. The original Warren code is not modifiable. In this paper, we show how static modifications of Warren code can be achieved by adding a few instructions and a little extra information to the code. The implementation of the code manager is discussed. Algorithms for some basic operations are given. Enhance the automatic acquisition of knowledge The first part of this paper gives a short review of the research work done in the field of knowledge acquisition. The second and third parts describe two sets of tools for knowledge, which are designed and implemented by a research group led by the author. Geometric modelling by recursively cutting vertices In this paper, a new method for curve and surface modelling is introduced which generates curves and surfaces by recursively cutting and grinding polygons and polyhedra. It is a generalization of the existing corner-cutting methods. A lot of properties, such as geometric continuity, representation, shape-preserving, and the algorithm are studied which show that such curves and surfaces are suitable for geometric designs in CAD, computer graphics and their application fields. NITWS—An efficient and system atically developed window system A window system, named NITWS, is presented, which features satisfactory performance and a new system architecture. A systematic way of development of the window system is also presented. A new automated fingerprint identification system A new automated fingerprint identification system is proposed. In this system, based on some local properties of digital image, the shape and minutiae features of fingerprint can be extracted from the grey level image without binarizing and thinning. In query, a latent fingerprint can be matched with the filed fingerprints by shape and/or minutiae features. Matching by shape features is much faster than by minutiae. The ES for estimating capital requirement In this paper, an expert system for estimating capital requirement is briefly illustrated, including the essential construction of the simulation model. Then various factors which have impact on the manager’s decision making, the details of the program using the GURU environment, and the major roles of the human experts and the knowledge engineer are described. Reduction of unnecessary dotted rules in the earley-algorithm With the high developed hardware from the PC’s today, there arise possibilities to implement programming environments on such kind of computers. To reduce the amount of calculation time and required memory space from implemented algorithms, new optimization approaches in the algorithm design are demanded. The purpose of this work is to explore and analyse possibilities to reduce the required memory space through elimination of superfluous grammar rules created during the process of recognition. A bitonic selection algorithm on multiprocessor system The so-called (m, n) selection problem is defined as the selection of them smallest (or largest) numbers fromn given numbers (n>m). Solving this problem in parallel mode has been successful on the networks, but it is seldom studied on the multiprocessor systems. This paper first, based on Batcher’s principle of bitonic merging, proposes the bitonic selection network. Then it repeals the varying rule of the pivots in all successive ranks of the network through our observation to the data transfer property in the network. Finally, according to this rule, the parallel selection algorithm with running timeO (lognlogm)1) onn processors is presented. A continuous algebraic semantics of CSP This is an attempt to use continous algebras to describe the semantics of CSP—continuity being used to solve recursive definitions of processes as infinite objects. By so doing, we combine the algebraic specifications of abstract data types with CSP to make up 2 new language, which is recommended as a promising candidate of specification language for designing and developing communicating systems. Technical summaries of GEMS GEMS is a solid modelling system running on CAD workstation or 32 bits microcomputer with graphics terminal. Complex solid objects are built from transformation and set operations upon box, cylinder, cone, sphere, torus, sweeping object and other primitives. CEMS has explicit features, e. g. hierarchical modular structure, interactive user interface, intuitional input, screen menu driven by data table, defining and instancing object in network construction, storage bases on CSG (Constructive Solid Geometry) and BReps (Boundary Representations), regularized set operations, transformation pipeline consistent with PHIGS graphics standard, various transformations, cutting object with two sections in arbitrary angle, patrolling to view the inside of an object, mapping patterns onto surfaces of an object etc.. Not only can it be used for the fields of spatial planning, architectural plan, CAD/CAM for machining, structure analysis, but it is also fundamental for developing the practical system of simulation, computer vision, robotics and so on. Preemptive scheduling with staircase and piecewise linear resource availability fassungEs werden Variationen für Reihenfolgeprobleme mit Unterbrechungen betrachtet bei denen die Aufgaben mit unterschiedlicher Bearbeitungszeit auf den einzelnen Maschinen gelöst werden können. Insbesondere wird ein Problem mit nichterneuerbaren Resourcen und zeitabhängigen Nachfragen behandelt und es wird gezeigt, daß dieses Problem durch eine Erweiterung der 2-Phasenmethode gelöst werden kann. In Phase 1 wird ein LP gelöst, während in Phase 2 ein zugehöriger Schedule konstruiert wird. Diese Konstruktion erfolgt durch die Bestimmung ganzzahliger Vektoren, die Ecken eines Polyeders entsprechen, der durch eine vollständig unimodulare Matrix definiert wird. In Spezialfällen reduziert sich dies auf Flußprobleme.AbstractSome variations are presented for the preemptive scheduling problem on unrelated processors, one shows how nonrenewable resources with a time-varying supply may be taken into account in an extension of the two-phase method; phase 1 consists in solving an LP problem and phase 2 is the construction of the schedule; such a construction reduces to the determination of integral vectors in polyhedra defined by totally unimodular matrices. In special cases, this is simply a compatible flow problem. The geometric modelling of furniture parts and its application In this paper, a 3-D solid modelling method appropriate for the design of furniture parts, which has been used in FCAD (Computer Aided Design for Furniture Structure) system, is introduced. Some interactive functions for modifying part models and deriving a variety of practical parts are described. Finally the application of the modelling method to computer aided manufacturing of furniture parts is prospected. On relative accessibility depending on a set of parameters Ewa Orlowska[1,2] presented a class of relations — aceessibllity relations determined by a set of parameters. These parameters are a formal counterpart of properties or characteristics of states which are associated by means of accessibility relation. The author has shown how properties of sets of parameters influence properties of accessibility relations and given interesting results. In this paper, some further algebraic properties of relative accessibility are discussed. We also give a necessary and sufficient condition, under which the set of accessibility relations {R(P)}P⊆PAR forms a lattice by means of usual set operations. A logic design automation system for generating logic diagram from hardware description This paper discusses a logic design automation system (LODAS) implemented on APOLLO DOMAIN workstation. LODAS can generate VLSI logic diagram from the hardware description. The system accepts many kinds of input description such as DDL or AHPL language description, functional array (truth table), covering array, Boolean equations or state transition tables. The system first simulates the functional description to verify the functional description of the system designed, then the translator translates the functional description into register transfer equations, Boolean equations and state transition equations automatically. Logic synthesis software partitions the translation result into a series of blocks, and transforms every small block into a multi-level NAND/NOR network according to the fan-in and fan-out restriction. Robotic path finding with collision avoidance using expert system A rule-based expert system has been developed and used into a robotic planning system with collision-avoidance. The world model is represented as the knowledge data and stored in the knowledge base with rules. The expert system can find a collision-avoidance path. Otherwise, it shows the collision secton in which the moved object is blocked. Several examples for the different objects to pass through the different channels and to find a collision-free path have been tested. The simulating results of the planner give out the planning sequence or blocked section(s). The output information is useful for making decision of the robot motion and modifying the technological parameters of the world. Model and algorithm of backward error recovery of distributed software Backward error recovery is one of the important techniques of software fault tolerance. Because of error propagation its recovery in distributed software needs cooperation between processes to achieve consistent recovery. However, the techniques of the achievement suffer from either concurrency level decreasing or the domino effect. Based on a formal model of the distributed system, a backward recovery protocol without the two drawbacks is specified in this paper. The algorithm of the protocol is proven strictly and its implementation is proposed. Facets of software development Professor Wu Yunzeng epitomized ancient and modern Chinese culture. Professor Wu Yunzeng was an eminent computer scientist, logician and philosopher. Professor Wu Yunzeng won innumerable friends for China. We are many, in the West, who were very fond of him. His visit to Denmark made positive, and lasting impressions. We found, also, that Professor Wu Yunzeng introduced into Chinese scholarly life very commendable features. The way he guided his students and colleagues was an example to be followed by us all.Professor Wu Yunzeng was profoundly engaged in the mathematical (logic and other) foundations of the computation sciences, in the didactics of that field, and in the broader, philosophical issues at stake when pursuing scientific and engineering work in computation.In this testimonial allow me to speculate on a context in which our many, individual contributions to the computation sciences may fit into practical life. A new attribute-based learning algorithm GS and a comparison with existing algorithms A new attribute-based Learning algorithm GS, utilizing cycles of generalization and specialization, is introduced. GS is simple, efficient and easy to implement. A comparison with existing algorithms AQ11 and ID3 shows that GS has some advantages over them. A feedback macro-scheduler A multi-class macro-scheduler is described in this paper. The scheduler periodically determines the number of jobs from each class that should be activated to minimize a weighted sum of the mean system residence time without saturating the system. The computation is based on the estimated system workload in the next interval. Thus it is adaptive to workload variation. The service provided to each class (specifically, the mean response time) may be adjusted by changing the weight associated with the job class.The scheme is based on mathematical modelling. The solution is obtained through the use of queuing theory, operational analysis and optimization theory. Exponential smoothing technique is employed to reduce the error of estimating the value of the model parameters. Simulation results show the scheme to be both stable and robust. Performance improvement over some of the existing schemes (the 50%, L=S and the Knee criteria) is significant under some workloads. The overhead involved in its implementation is acceptable and the errors due to some of the assumptions used in the formulation and solution of the model are discussed. On pattern separating function in a two-layered random nerve net with feedforward inhibitory connections In this paper, we derive a theory for investigating the pattern separating function in the nerve net. Then, we consider some effects of the stochastic parameters constructing the nerve net, firing rates of the second layer and input patterns on the pattern separating function through the theory. As a result, we reveal that a nerve net excellent in pattern separating function is obtained when the stochastic parameters are selected properly. We also show that the pattern separating function is enhanced by controlling the firing rate of the second layer to a small value. Furthermore, the input patterns are separated largely when the firing rates of them are large. Understanding naming in distributed systems Naming in distributed systems is modelled as a string translation problem. Viewing names as strings and name resolution mechanisms as syntax directed translators provides a formal handle on the loosely understood concepts associated with naming: we give precise definitions for such informal terminology as name spaces, addresses, routes, source-routing, and implicit-routing; we identify the properties of naming systems, including under what conditions they support unique names, relative names, absolute names, and synonyms; and we discuss how the basic elements of the model can be implemented by name servers. Monolingual: One way towards the integrated software development environment The software development is considered as stepwise abstract-implementation process in software like cycle. This paper presents a monolingual methodology and an embryo of MONOL which uses a uniform scheme to describe software development process. Speedup studies of leading iteration model for non-DO loops in comparison with sequential iteration model In this paper, we present an approximate formula for calculating the speedup of a concurrent non-DO loop. The execution pattern of a concurrent non-DO loop is analyzed. As a result, the optimal concurrent step for a non-DO loop is presented and proved. With the analysis of the speedup of a concurrent non-DO loop, a simple and useful approximate formula is deduced, which is just the mathematical limit of speedup when the number of iterations is approaching infinity. NDAUTO: An experimental software automation system This paper describes the design and implementation of an experimental software automation system (NDAUTO). By combining the transformational and procedural approaches in software automation, the system can transform software functional specifications written in a graphical specification language GSPEC to executable programs automatically. The equivalence between a specification and its corresponding program can be guaranteed by the system, and the correctness of the specification can also be validated. The main new points of the work lie in the design of the specification language, the transformation mechanism and the correctness validation of the specification. A proof rule for while loop in VDM A proof rule for while loop which can be used in justification of program w.r.t. specifications using two-state post-conditions is presented in this paper, accompanied with a soundness proof and a comparison with Aczel’s rule for while loop. Synthesis of communicating process skeletons from temporal-spatial logic specifications Temporal—spatial logic is a propositional logic with temporal and spatial modalities asserting on a network. In this paper, a tableau—like decision procedure for network satisfiability in that logic is presented and used in the synthesis of communicating skeletons of CSP—like programs. By explicitly introducing communication network in the logic system, our approach has some advantages over the temporal one. The determining method about the conflict between the null constraints and the set of functional dependencies In this paper the conflict between the null constraints and the set of functional dependencies is defined. Some rules for determining the conflicts and a method for processing the conflicts are obtained. Interface for voice input and output to the transputer system This paper describes the design and experiments of an interface and occam control program for the telephone set connection to the transputer system. A new method for generating conic sections This paper presents a difference method for computing vertices of the polygon inscribed in a conic section. It can be applied to computer graphic package or to plotter to generate conic sections. This method is simpler and more efficient than traditional ones, and its form remains invariant under homogeneous affine transformations. The stability of the method and its relationship with its matrix counterpart are also discussed. Fault-tolerance analysis of multibus multiprocessor system This paper proposes a new graph model for multibus multiprocessor system. based on the link representation of cut set of the hypergraph, ring sum and its algebraic properties, we can directly calculate the degrees of bus-fault-tolerance and processor-fault-tolerance for any multibus multiprocessor system. Algorithms are listed and all the theorems and proofs are stated. The comparison between the statistical heuristic search and A In order to further unravel the principle and performance of the statistical beuristic search algorithm SA, in this paper, in comparison with A* search, the hypothesis, performance and computational complexity of SA are discussed. On the structure of binary feedforward inverses with delay 2 LetM′ = C(Mα, ƒ) be a semi-input-memory finite automaton with input alphabetY and output alpha-betX. IfX=Y={0, 1}, thenM′ is a feedforward inverse with delay 2 if and only if there exists a cycleC of state diagram ofMα such that ƒ(yo, ...,yc, λα (t)) can be expressed in the form of ƒ(1) (y0, ...,yc − 1,yα (t)) ⊕yc for any statet inC andyo, yl, ... yc inY; or of ƒ(2) (y0, ...,yc − 2,yα (t)) ⊕yc − 1 for any statet inC andyo, yl, ..., yc inY; or for any statet inC andyo, yl, ..., yc, inY, yo yl ... yc satisfies the D [t] condition. The socalledyo yl ... yc satisfying the D [t] condition is that: for somei, j, (i, j)∈{(1,2), (1, 3), (2,1), (2,2), (3,1), (3,2)}, there exists a (c+2−k)—ary functionf(k), k=1, 2, 3, such that the Equation (1) and Equation (2) hold simultaneously for allyc−2/′, ...,yc+1/′ ∈Y. where
$$\hat t = \delta _\alpha  \left( t \right)$$
; and if (i, j)=(1,2), then one and only one of the following conditions C1 and C2 holds for allyc−1/′,yc′,yc+1/′∈Y.Condition C1: there exists ac-ary functiong(1), such that
              Condition C2: there exists a (c−1)-ary functiong(2), such that, where
$$\hat t = \delta _\alpha  \left( t \right)$$
. Properties of semijoin sequences The problem of finding optimum semijoin sequence for an arbitrary query under linear cost function for the transmission cost is NP-hard. Hence heuristic algorithms with desirable properties are explored. In this paper four properties of semijoin programs for distributed query processing are identified. The use of these properties in constructing semijoin sequence is justified. An existing algorithm is modified incorporating these properties. Empirical comparison with existing algorithms shows the superiority of the proposed algorithm. The on-line voyeur: Promises and pitfalls of observing electronic interaction Studies that compare objective data on communication activity to data provided in verbal reports have indicated that verbal report data are not as accurate as one might hope. Researchers of communication have used verbal reports as their primary source of data because it presents a cheap and easy way to collect the data. This paper presents an easy alternative involving the study ofelectronic communication: a method that allows the collection of objective information on electronic communication, thus avoiding the problems associated with self-reports. The paper reviews the available literature on the accuracy of self-reports of communication, presents the instrument used to collect the objective electronic communication data, and discusses some of the difficulties and limitations encountered in implementing a study using the instrument. Hierarchical van-Gateway Algorithms and PDN-Cluster Addressing Scheme for Worldwide Interoperation Feiein Local TCP/IP Networks Via X.25 Neiwdrks Within the last few years, the DARPA Internet protocol suite (TCP/IP, FTP, SMPP, TELNET, etc.) has developed into a de facto industry standard for heterogeneous packet-switching computer networks. However, the current Internet gateway architecture does not provide dynamic algorithms to route Internet datagrams between local TCP/IP networks via the system of X.25 public data networks (PDN). Network Interconnection and Gateways As computer networks proliferate, the importance of interconnecting networks increases. The recent explosion in the numbers of personal computers is leading to even greater growth in the local area network (LAN) area. Interconnecting these diverse networks presents many technical problems, and may be pursued in many ways [9], [16], [31], [32], [37]. The internet worm incident On the evening of 2 November 1988, someone “infected” Internet with a worm program. That program exploited flaws in utility programs in systems based on BSD-derived versions of Unix. The flaws allowed the program to break into those machines and copy itself, thus infecting those systems. This program eventually spread to thousands of machines, and disrupted normal activities and Internet connectivity for many days.This paper explains why this program was a worom (as opposed to a virus), and provides a brief chronology of both the spread and eradication of the program. That is followed by discussion of some specific issues raised by the community's reaction and subsequent discussion of the event. Included are some interesting lessons learned from the incident. Access control and authentication in LANs This paper explores the uses for security mechanisms confined to OSI layer 2, even in LANs that also employ wide area protocols up through layer 7. These mechanisms must be integrated into the protocol architecture in a way that will not interfere with or be redundant to very similar security mechanism implemented in higher layers operating across the wide area network. A model for such mechanisms in the context of IEEE 802 LANs is proposed. IPWATCH: A Tool for Monitoring Network Locality In the course of the last decade local area networks (LANs) have grown from simple single-segment Ethernet cables into multi-segment topologies composed of diverse physical media. Today, a LAN in a large organization is typically composed of a shared Backbone to which a number of semi-independent Subnets are attached via devices called Routers that perform packet switching. Multiple backbones may be present for enhanced reliability and performance. A variety of factors account for this increase in complexity. First, electrical considerations limit the lengths of individual LAN segments and the density of machines on them. Second, maintenance and fault isolation are simplified if a LAN is decomposable. Third, administrative functions such as the assignment of unique host addresses can be decentralized if a LAN can be partitioned. These considerations will increase in importance as distributed systems become more pervasive. From the editor-in-chief  From Sequencing to “Thinking” In Large-Scale Projects PERT (Program Evaluation and Review Technique) was introduced in 1958 as a method for planning and control of projects (Malcolm et al., 1959, apparently the seminal publication). Its use has become ubiquitous (Murdick et al., 1984). The structure of the management control has necessarily changed, in parallel with the development of more complex Large-Scale Projects (LSP), becoming increasingly reliant upon computerised planning systems (Moder et al., 1983). This paper documents our reasoning behind moving away from traditional sequential monitoring (PERT), to more contemporary “thinking” (Expert System (ES) computer-based decision support) in LSPs. A policy for science and technical information in chemistry An important factor in technological or scientific innovation is the ready availability of relevant information. In chemical research and development data and factual information on chemical species are of prime importance: in chemistry at present we know 9 million compounds — this figure is increased annually as a result of the synthesis of another half million substances. New compounds, new properties, new processes and new methods were reported in the last year in circa 600,000 documents with an upward trend predicted for the future. The state-of-the art in chemistry is documented in many thousand patent applications annually. A compact multiway merge sorter using VLSI linear-array comparators  Preliminary application of the computer technique to GuQin music research GuQin ( literally, ancient Qin) is one of the oldest Chinese musical instruments. GuQin has its own apecial way of making notations. Existing GuQin notations incorporate a valuable heritage of Chinese traditional music. Using computers to store GuQin notations and recover the same to typesetting and printing is briefly described in this paper. The prospective application of computer technique to Chinese traditional music is also discussed. The automated structure elucidation system — CHEMICS The CHEMICS system, developed by the authors, is a computer-assisted structure elucidation system for organic compounds, which depends on the way of structure generation method; that is, the most probable structure is generated by the automated analysis of data (also for instance, chemical spectra) of an unknown using empirical and theoretical rules.[l] The principle of the system is that all possible structures, which are known to exist or which might exist on chemical grounds, are listed in a computer. The number of the structures in a particular case is then narrowed down by successively entering information from spectroscopic measurements. CHEMICS is designed to store all the substructures (called ‘components’) necessary for building any likely structures. At present, CHEMICS contains 630 components for the structure elucidation of organic compounds consisting of C, H, O, N, S and halogen atoms (Table 1). The set of components has been devised so that it is possible to construct any structures by selecting appropriate components from the complete set. To store such a set of components in a computer is synonymous with storing all the complete structures which could be present. One Flood Routing Protocol for LANs with Arbitrary Topology A new flood routing protocol for LANs with arbitrary topology is described, and studied by means of simulation modelling. The protocol, marked as T-MAFR, has better performance than the known protocol MAFR, but its implementation is simpler. The results of simulation experiments give the comparison of three LAN protocols: CSMA/CD, MAFRT, and T-MAFR. An effective decision algorithm for prepositional temporal logic The paper provides a decision algorithm for Kröger’s temporal propositional logic based on the construction of “finite” counterexamples defined by finite graphs, where each node may represent different but equivalent stages of the infinite time line. The paper characterizes the operations definable in the logic, i. e. its strength. Results of the Development of a Manipulator with a very large reach The paper gives an overview of the work performed in a national project by the companies Putzmeister, AEG and Dornier together with the IPA-Stuttgart.The principal hardware and software is now completed and tested. The first results show that the specifications of the system can be realized. Research Panel Reports An important objective of the advanced research workshop is to stimulate research panel discussions by the participating scientists. The participants were divided to four panels. Each panel had an assigned chairman or co-chairmen, and a provacator, who had all prepared in advance to lead the panel discussions. The panels met in parallel and focused on four main themes, which are significant to the workshop topic:
Material Flow Data and KnowledgeCommunications and Intelligent SystemsPlanning and Control ModelsImplementation and Economics Introduction Roughly nine years ago, the two editors met for the first time in Amsterdam, the Netherlands at the EURO III meeting (organized by the Association of European Operational Research Societies) there. As a result of our initial meeting, the two of us planned and carried out a number of activities in the multiple criteria decision making area, much of it supported by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). The latest of these activities was a NATO Advanced Study Institute (ASI) on multiple criteria, decision making and risk analysis using microcomputers. The institute was held in Tarabya, Istanbul, TURKEY, on June 28–July 8, 1987.