The coming decade of change on the Korean peninsula: Implications for Northeast Asia and the United States The next decade on the Korean peninsula will be one of dramatic change. With a nearly nonexistent economy and its people facing severe famine, the DPRK has no choice but to move away from its self-reliance policies towards another course of action—most likely leading to reunification of the peninsula. However it plays out, the changes in Korea will have important regional implications and impact U.S. military presence in Northeast Asia. Policy makers must formulate plans now for U.S. forces in the region during, and after, Korean reunification. Despite being in shambles internally, North Korea remains a hermit kingdom standing steadfastly against the tides of change and pressures from the outside world to become part of the international community. The Korean peninsula remains a potential, and very likely, international flashpoint as no formal peace treaty was signed after the Korean War—only an armistice agreement keeps the peninsula in a fragile military stalemate. With a badly broken economy, its people continuing to face famine, the threat to resume its nuclear program, and the recent missile firings over Japan, North Korea will likely be an international flashpoint sooner rather than later. A Comparison of the Internet and the Standard Textbook in Preparing for the Professional Anaesthetic Examination The Internet is increasingly being recognised as a source of informationin different fields, and medicine is no exception. We investigated the use ofthe Internet as an aid in preparing for the professional medical examinations.The Internet was compared to a standard textbook in answering a randomlyselected past examination paper. Thirty-eight web-sites on the Internet wereinvolved, giving information to all the examination questions. In contrast,the textbook provided adequate information in only 73.3% of the questions. Thetime required to search for information on the Internet was more than thatrequired for a single textbook. (approximately 2 hours per question comparedto 30 minutes per question respectively). However, with the rapid developmentof computer technology and the cyberspace, the Internet may prove to be aviable alternative or a good supplement to the standard textbook when traineeanaesthetists are preparing for their professional medical examinations. The China model of Korean reunification Like Germany's reunification, essentially the annexation of East Germany by West Germany, Korean reunification looms as most likely, ultimately and largely entailing South Korea's annexation of North Korea. The awesome cost borne by West Germany for reunification has been instructive to South Korea, particularly in recognition that the material and ideological gaps between North and South Korea are far greater than those which existed between East and West Germany. A possible solution to the negative implications of cataclysmic reunificationmay rest in gradual reunification of the Koreas, with an interim industrialization of North Korea by South Korea, based on the model of the economic development zones in southeastern China; hence, the “China Model”. In such a scenario the investors in North Korea's gradual industrialization would be (primarily) the huge conglomerate South Korean corporations chaebol which seek cheaper labor pools abroad. Investment by such corporations, in cooperation with the South Korean government, and possibly supplemented by western and Japanese capital investment, would presumably raise levels of productivity and the standard of living in the economically and agriculturally ravished North. The North-South gaps would thus be gradually reduced as would the financial and other burdens South Korea would otherwise have to bear for cataclysmic reunification. Global culture, local cultures and the internet: The Thai example This paper addresses the questions of whether and, if so, how and to what extent the Internet brings about homogenisation of local cultures in the world. It examines a particular case, that of Thai culture, through an investigation and interpretation of a Usenet newsgroup, soc.culture.thai. Two threads of discussion in the newsgroup are selected. One deals with criticisms of the Thai government and political leaders, and the other focuses on whether the Thai language should be a medium, or perhaps the only medium, of communication in the newsgroup. It is found that, instead of erasing local cultural boundaries, creating a worldwide monolithic culture, the Internet reduplicates the existing cultural boundaries. What the Internet does, on the contrary, is to create an umbrella cosmopolitan culture which is necessary for communication among people from disparate cultures. That culture, however, is devoid of ‘thick’ backgrounds, in Michael Walzer's sense. “Hebdo-Chim,” a Web Application to Support Learning in a Chemistry Methods Pre-Service Course The potential of the Internet for Education has been enthusiastically reported by many. It is clear, though, that science educators need to be prepared and supported in order to adopt it, as is the case with any innovation. But first they should be motivated; and one way to do this is by letting them experience the benefits of the innovation in their own learning. By showing them appropriate uses, no matter how modest, in teacher preparation courses, we can motivate and influence future science teachers; they, like any teachers, tend to model what is “taught by example.” This paper describes one use of the Web in support of learning in a course in Chemistry Methods for pre-service teachers at Université de Montréal. Designed as a “weekly,” it is a site meant to be an integral, if not central, part of the course. In addition to permanent access to links and course outline, course notes and information relevant to each class were posted every week. An assignment involving a “treasure hunt” on the Web is also described. Research on the Internet: Validation of a World-Wide Web mediated personality scale Two studies were performed to assess the validity of a World-Wide Web (WWW) measure of self-monitoring. In Study 1, Usenet Newsgroups likely to be read by high and low self-monitors were identified and a comparison was made of the extent to which contributors engaged in a form of self-presentation (use ofhandles orscreen names) likely to be influenced by self-monitoring tendencies. Handles were used significantly more frequently in thehigh self-monitoring Newsgroups, supporting the distinction made. In Study 2, participants recruited through these sets of Newsgroups completed the WWW-mediated test. Those from the high self-monitoring groups scored significantly higher. Self-reports of self-monitoring behavior also reflected scores on the scale. The results are interpreted as demonstrating the construct validity of the instrument used and the viability of criterion-group-oriented methods in Internet-mediated research. Information Services and the Internet  Technology professional development for teachers This article examines technology professional development for preservice and inservice teachers. It reviews the current status of technology in our schools, what we know about professional development in the area of technology, and research on efforts to increase preservice teacher use of technology in appropriate ways. Web-based administration of a personality questionnaire: Comparison with traditional methods The World-Wide Web holds great promise as a mechanism for questionnaire-based research. But are data from Web-based questionnaires comparable to data from standard paper-and-pencil questionnaires? This study assessed the equivalence of the Ruminative Responses Scale in a Web-based format and in a paper-and-pencil format among introductory psychology, upper-level psychology, and non-psychology students. Internal consistency coefficients were comparable across the groups. The participants in the Web sample reported higher levels of self-focused rumination than did the other groups. Women in the Web sample reported more self-focused rumination than did women in the other groups. In the Web sample, results did not covary with access location. These results suggest that findings from Web-based questionnaire research are comparable with results obtained using standard procedures. The computerized Web interface may also facilitate self-disclosure among research participants. From traditional EDI to Internet-based EDI: managerial considerations Traditional EDI/VAN technology has been used for almost three decades and has brought its users significant advantages resulting in increased productivity and efficiency. However, implementation constraints have restricted the technology to predominantly large corporations, thus limiting EDI's reach to a broader base of small suppliers and customers. Internet-based EDI, with significantly fewer implementation constraints, can play an important role in extending EDI benefits to a wider spectrum of businesses. Recently published articles reflect a reluctance on the part of traditional EDI users to adopt this new communication modality. The reasons for this reluctance include the newness of the Internet technology, potential Internet legislation and lack of Internet standards plus the reliability and security of data transmission within the Internet environment. This paper examines these management issues and describes existing and potential solutions available to both new and traditional EDI users. Since few companies have embraced Internet-based EDI, this paper concludes with some successful Internet EDI-based cases. Along with these cases, the authors present a very broad description of the nature of the products and services currently available in the market today to support Internet-based EDI. Global diffusion of interactive networks: The impact of culture The Internet and other interactive networks are diffusing across the globe at rates that vary from country to country. Typically, economic and market structure variables are used to explain these differences. The addition of culture to these variables will provide a more robust understanding of the differences in Internet and interactive network diffusion. Existing analyses that identify culture as a predictor of diffusion do not adequately specify the dimensions of culture and their impacts.This paper presents a set of propositions to be used in analyses of the impact of culture on the diffusion of interactive networks. The propositions were developed using cultural constructs presented by Hofstede (1991), Herbig (1994) and Hall and Hall (1987). Diffusion of innovations theory and critical mass theory provide the theoretical base. The development of the propositions resulted from a close examination of the theories for relationships mediated by culture. The resulting propositions use cultural variables in relationships established by the theories. It is hoped that the propositions will serve as a starting point for future research in the area of cultural influences on the diffusion of interactive networks. Internet-enabled distribution strategies This paper investigates the effects of the Internet on the structure of the classical marketing channels. The advantages offered by the Internet have determined many companies to adopt different models of Internet-enabled distribution strategy. The choice and the implementation of these strategies will be influenced, as in the case of any other marketing channel, by the characteristics of the company, of its clients, and of the traded products. On the basis of an empirical study of 500 Internet commercial sites, the present paper identifies the models of Internet-enabled distribution strategy implemented by the Web-active companies, and then verifies four hypotheses related to the factors that influence the choice and implementation of a particular strategy. The SGF metadata framework and its support for social awareness on the World Wide Web The widespread use of metadata is transforming the WWW into an information space that can be accessed not only by humans, but also by software agents. In this article, one application for metadata is more closely examined: the description of Web sites structures in a machine understandable way. The Structured Graph Format (SGF) is introduced as an XML‐based format supporting the description of Web spaces as structured graphs. The SGF framework, built around this format specification, is then described. This integrated and extensible set of software components supports the generation, the distribution and the processing of SGF metadata. Three approaches to the problem of generating SGF metadata are compared and highlight a tradeoff between quality and cost. SGF consumers are then presented as components that process the metadata for some purpose. An SGF consumer that uses the metadata to dynamically generate interactive site maps is presented. The discussion then argues for the need to increase social awareness on the WWW. In other words, it raises the issue of monitoring the activity occurring within Web sites. The notion of awareness is first introduced and situated in the context of Computer Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW). Different ways to apply awareness to the WWW are then reviewed. Finally, the SGF framework is described as a valuable foundation for building awareness systems on the Web, with two main advantages. First, because SGF metadata supports the definition of regions within a Web site, at different granularities, it ensures the scalability of monitoring systems. It thus gives users of these systems a very flexible way to define regions of interest and to monitor activity in more meaningful ways. Second, the site maps generated on the basis of SGF metadata provide an efficient way to represent the activity occurring within the monitored site. These explicit representations, which are useful to analyze activity, are contrasted with abstract representations, which are useful to maintain peripheral awareness about ongoing activity on the Web. Media temporalities of the internet: Philosophies of time and media in Derrida and Rorty My considerations are organised into four sections. The first section provides a survey of some significant developments that determine contemporary philosophical discussion on the subject of ‘time’. In the second section, I show how the question of time and the issue of media are linked with one another in the views of two influential contemporary philosophers: Jacques Derrida and Richard Rorty. Finally, in the third section, the temporal implications of cultural practices which are developing in the new medium of the Internet are analysed and, in the fourth section, related to the central theses of Derrida and Rorty. Six Ways from Sunday: Approaches to Indexing Digital Text Images In 1994, the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation funded a joint project undertaken by the Center for Research Libraries (CRL) and the Latin American Microfilm Project (LAMP) to scan and index over three-hundred thousand pages of microfilmed Brazilian Government Documents for the Internet. Due to the collection size, format, language and poor physical condition of the text, entering this overwhelmingly textual collection as full-text was prohibitively expensive. Instead the documents were scanned as images, thereby maintaining the intellectual content of the collection, but losing the dynamic searching capabilities inherent in full-text databases. A combination of indexing approaches was used to provide access to these documents. Indexing (table-of-contents, pagination and subject indexes) found in the documents were recreated to give users access to the documents. A controlled vocabulary was established to index a portion of the database. The factors of costs, user feedback and available technologies all influenced the choices of the five indexes ultimately utilized. This paper will describe and comment on the strengths and weaknesses of the various indexing approaches taken to access the images within this database. Feasibility of quality-of-life research on the Internet: A follow-up study Objective: Assessment of the feasibility of conducting clinical research with patients using electronic mail and the World Wide Web. Design: We re-contacted 463 patients with ulcerative colitis (UC) and 154 benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) patients who had provided us with email addresses as part of a Web-based study. In an electronic mail message, we informed patients of a web site with a new study and invited them to participate. We then examined the factors associated with patients' participation in the new study. Results: Completion rates were 28% for UC patients (single mailing) and 48% for BPH patients (up to four mailings in a two-month period). Some patients could not be contacted due to invalid email addresses (23%). Those who completed the new study tended to be older, and less time had elapsed since their participation in the previous study. Furthermore, their health-related quality-of-life had significantly improved since the previous study. Conclusion: It is possible to use direct electronic mail contact to conduct follow-up research with patients. Response rates appear to be related to the number of messages sent, age of the recipients, and time since the initial contact. The microworld of Phoenix Quest: social and cognitive considerations The present paper explores social and cognitive considerations in the context of a computer-game microworld or learning culture environment. Forty-one boys and 57 girls, aged 8 to 12 years (Grades 4, 5, and 6) were observed playing a computer game called Phoenix Quest. This computer game, featuring an adolescent female protagonist, is an interactive, mystery-adventure with embedded language and mathematics activities. The issues discussed include (a) the development of a computer game learning culture or microworld, (b) interdependence in the process of learning social skills, (c) computer game-playing strategies, (d) gender differences in computer-game play, and (e) mathematics concepts explored in the Phoenix Quest environment. These findings not only contribute to the understanding of how students create and shape a microworld around a computer game like Phoenix Quest, but also indicate some of the inherent teaching and learning limitations of educational software when the guidance of a teacher is absent. Is there a place for department stores on the Internet? Lessons from an abandoned pilot The potential of Internet retailing is widely promoted yet some retailers have been slow to embrace the technology. Department stores typically have only an information presence on the World Wide Web. This paper describes a pilot project by one of Australia's leading department stores. The case is used to describe certain lessons about Internet retailing and the use of pilot projects. Department stores' decisions whether to adopt electronic retailing are analysed in terms of the opportunities and threats that face them and the capabilities required for success. The conclusion is reached that, as yet, there is no obvious place for established department stores on the Internet. A Model of Factors Affecting the Growth of Retailing on the Internet We propose a model that links factors affecting the growth of retailing on the Internet (the Net). Specifically, we examine the roles of the following factors: product-related (risk, efforts, and information intensity); medium-related (interactivity, variety of channels, logical capability, and underlying communication model); consumer-related (preference for home-based shopping, technical orientation, and access to the Net); firm-related (information intensity and expertise in direct marketing), and environment-related (critical mass of consumers and retailers online). We examine how at each stage of the consumption process, Net-based retailing affects value delivery to consumers. Managerial implications of the model are discussed. Virtual marketplaces: Building Management Information Systems for internet brokerage On the World Wide Web (WWW), an increasing number of new trading forms for brokerage of business transactions are emerging. Almost inevitably, central contactpoints on the WWW are being formed, so-called virtual marketplaces, where supply and demand meet. The organisation they require is carried out by a central operator, who offers his brokerage services on a business footing. The aim of this paper is the generation of practical components of a Management Information System (MIS) for such marketplaces that are only accessible online. To do this, the theoretical assumptions of virtual marketplaces are combined with a case study of a German internet-broker for used cars. Understanding slow Internet adoption: ‘infomediation’ in ship-broking markets Debate on the impact of the Internet on socioeconomic and business environments has been dominated by technological determinist perspectives, narrowing the range of discourse around the implications of these new technologies. One important and neglected dimension is the impact on market relationships. Technological determinism suggests that the transactional efficiencies associated with the new medium should have a major impact on market structures. If that argument is correct, the case should be stronger in broking markets where information exchange, information mediation and communication flows are paramount. However, an examination of various broking markets reveals significant differences in the implications of this technological innovation. Drawing upon participant observation research conducted in 1998–99 in the shipbroking market, the paper explores the limitations of the technological determinist perspective and puts forward a model to explore the changing nature and dynamics of market relationships generated by information flows via the Internet. Application of the model helps to locate the reasons for slow adoption of the Internet in ship-broking markets. Agent-based Drivers’ Information Assistance System “Drivers’ Information Assistance System (DIA system)” is an ITS (Intelligent Transport Systems) application framework that provides agent-based information assistance to drivers through car navigation systems or on-board PCs.DIA system enables flexible information retrieval over the Internet using intelligent mobile agent, and incorporates a high-speed event delivery facility that makes real-time information service possible. The goal of the system is to provide up to the minute information and services related to driver needs, such as parking lot vacancy information. Crucial to making this a practical operation is the agent-based ability to access the network while the vehicle is in motion. Measuring Quality of Life in Paediatric Patients The purpose of this paper is to highlight important considerations in the measurement of health-related quality of life (HR-QOL) in paediatric populations. Considerations specific to the evaluation of HR-QOL in children include children’s understanding of the questions being asked, their understanding of their own disease, using parents as proxies, time perception problems and simply the fact that children are continually changing.We provide a review of the currently available literature regarding paediatric HR-QOL assessments to examine the different instruments and approaches taken to assess HR-QOL in paediatrics. Asthma-specific measures are discussed as examples of condition-specific HR-QOLinstruments because of the considerable amount of methodological and developmental work that has been conducted in this disease. Our search strategy revealed 15 main generic and 5 main asthmaspecific instruments that met our criteria for inclusion. The main points highlighted for each instrument are the description of domains, respondent (i.e. the child, parent or clinician), age group, number of items, format of instrument (usually self-administered or by interview), original country and language, and the existence of translations. For the various studies in which the different instruments are used, the issues of patient population tested, sample size, reliability and validity are addressed.Although this paper does not attempt to be an exhaustive study of paediatric HR-QOL instruments, we provide an overview of the main generic and asthma specific instruments, as well as an examination of the different methods used in assessing paediatric HR-QOL. Many challenges exist in the measurement of HRQOL in paediatric patients. With increased attention to the considerations highlighted, the field will continue to grow, and the usefulness and application of HR-QOL measures in paediatric patients is likely to improve.
 Medical Data Mining on the Internet: Research on a Cancer Information System This paper discusses several data mining algorithms and techniques thatwe have developed at the University of Arizona Artificial Intelligence Lab.We have implemented these algorithms and techniques into severalprototypes, one of which focuses on medical information developed incooperation with the National Cancer Institute (NCI) and the University ofIllinois at Urbana-Champaign. We propose an architecture for medicalknowledge information systems that will permit data mining across severalmedical information sources and discuss a suite of data mining tools that weare developing to assist NCI in improving public access to and use of theirexisting vast cancer information collections. Gambling and the Health of the Public: Adopting a Public Health Perspective During the last decade there has been an unprecedented expansion of legalized gambling throughout North America. Three primary forces appear to be motivating this growth: (1) the desire of governments to identify new sources of revenue without invoking new or higher taxes; (2) tourism entrepreneurs developing new destinations for entertainment and leisure; and (3) the rise of new technologies and forms of gambling (e.g., video lottery terminals, powerball mega-lotteries, and computer offshore gambling). Associated with this phenomenon, there has been an increase in the prevalence of problem and pathological gambling among the general adult population, as well as a sustained high level of gambling-related problems among youth. To date there has been little dialogue within the public health sector in particular, or among health care practitioners in general, about the potential health impact of gambling or gambling-related problems. This article encourages the adoption of a public health perspective towards gambling. More specifically, this discussion has four primary objectives:1. Create awareness among health professionals about gambling, its rapid expansion and its relationship with the health care system;2. Place gambling within a public health framework by examining it from several perspectives, including population health, human ecology and addictive behaviors;3. Outline the major public health issues about how gambling can affect individuals, families and communities;4. Propose an agenda for strengthening policy, prevention and treatment practices through greater public health involvement, using the framework of The Ottawa Charter for Health Promotion as a guide.By understanding gambling and its potential impacts on the public's health, policy makers and health practitioners can minimize gambling's negative impacts and appreciate its potential benefits. A tale of two mailing lists This paper serves to report a research study on the use made of two separate mailing lists or listservs, for professional development—Oz-Teachers and UK-Schools. Both lists were, and still are, used by teachers in Australia and the United Kingdom, as well as by teachers across the globe, to communicate electronically with each other. The practice of this communication is typically characterised by text messages that pose questions or offer answers; by ‘threads’ of discussion based around single or combined themes; and by statements of information. In this context, two windows are opened in this study: one shows a dynamic picture of teachers at work and play in the technology of listservs, developing skills and practices in asynchronous communications. The other looks into the content of many of the postings, demonstrating the practices, views, ideas and concerns teachers have with using technology in traditional school and classroom environments. Whilst this paper provides a detailed overview of the study, the full report of the research programme, of which this study constitutes one part, can be found elsewhere, in Lankshear et al. (1997) and Wild (1999). The Relationship Between Business Process Re-engineering and Internet Usage: Survey of Acute Care Hospitals in the United States The data from a national survey of acute care hospitals was used for analysis. Hatcher discusses the complete questionnaire, data collection procedure, and sample selection.(1)The relationship between business process Re-engineering, total quality management, innovation system approaches, and internet usage and potential usage will be reported and discussed. Editorial  Kane B, Sands DZ, The AMIA Internet Working Group: Task force on guidelines for the use of clinic-patient electronic mail  The social and cultural shaping of educational technology: Toward a social constructivist framework The Social Construction of Technology (SCOT) theory offers a useful conceptual framework for examining the social and cultural factors that may contribute to or detract from the successful integration of computer technology into educational environments. This theory, which grew out of studies in the history of technology and the sociology of science, suggests methods for studying the phenomenon of technological development, such as identifying the relevant social groups involved in the development process and the factors that either leave the technology in a state of interpretive flexibility or bring the interpretation of the technology to closure. This paper uses a SCOT approach to explore how personal and institutional beliefs can shape the ways in which technologies are used by teachers and students, and to identify the social, epistemological, cognitive and motivational factors that need to be considered as computer technology becomes an integral part of the educational experience. IAEA internet database of natural matrix reference materials The International Atomic Energy Agency maintains a database on internationally available certified reference materials of natural origin. The database was updated in 1998 and prepared for an Internet implementation. A user-friendly structure was created, providing two main pathways for browsing, either according to the matrix classification or the producer’s name. The database presently contains over 20,000 values for 480 measurands and 1085 reference materials from 43 different producers. Most of the materials entered contain values for trace and minor elements (66%). Editorial  KDD, data mining, and the challenge for normative privacy The present study examines certain challenges that KDD (Knowledge Discovery in Databases) in general and data mining in particular pose for normative privacy and public policy. In an earlier work (see Tavani, 1999), I argued that certain applications of data-mining technology involving the manipulation of personal data raise special privacy concerns. Whereas the main purpose of the earlier essay was to show what those specific privacy concerns are and to describe how exactly those concerns have been introduced by the use of certain KDD and data-mining techniques, the present study questions whether the use of those techniques necessarily violates the privacy of individuals. This question is considered vis-à-vis a recent theory of privacy advanced by James Moor (1997). The implications of that privacy theory for a data-mining policy are also considered. Hcfa Internet Security Policy  From “website” to “on-line presence”: From “internet” to “information society” This paper discusses some of the key drivers that will enable businesses to operate effectively on-line, and looks at how the notion of “website” will become one of an “on-line presence” which will support the main activities of an organisation. This is placed in the context of the development of the “information society” which will allow individuals-as consumers or employees-quick, inexpensive and on-demand access to vast quantities of entertainment, services and information. The paper draws on an example of these developments in Australasia. Mercator: A scalable, extensible Web crawler This paper describes Mercator, a scalable, extensible Web crawler written entirely in Java. Scalable Web crawlers are an important component of many Web services, but their design is not well‐documented in the literature. We enumerate the major components of any scalable Web crawler, comment on alternatives and tradeoffs in their design, and describe the particular components used in Mercator. We also describe Mercator's support for extensibility and customizability. Finally, we comment on Mercator's performance, which we have found to be comparable to that of other crawlers for which performance numbers have been published. Measles, Mumps and Rubella Vaccine The current state of knowledge regarding the safety of measles, mumps and rubella vaccine (MMR) is reviewed. Although there are known adverse reactions to the vaccine, the majority are relatively minor and have no long term consequences, and those that do have long term consequences are extremely rare. Contraindications, known adverse reactions that may follow MMR immunisation, publicised adverse events for which a causal association with MMR has not been established, and the complications that may follow an infection with wild-type measles, mumps or rubella, are discussed. The article also discusses, with examples, the misleading information that can be obtained on the internet and in the public press.It is vital that the general public have an understanding of the great benefits and low risks associated with the use of MMR vaccine, because it is important that they consent to the administration of MMR vaccine to their children in order to ensure the success of universal immunisation programmes and the control of measles, mumps and rubella. Therefore, it becomes increasingly important for health professionals to use innovative education methods to promote immunisation and counteract the incorrect and misleading information that is readily available on the internet and in the media. Complexity Results for Single-Machine Problems with Positive Finish-Start Time-Lags .In a single-machine problem with time-lags a set of jobs has to be processed on a single machine in such a way that certain timing restrictions between the finishing and starting times of the jobs are satisfied and a given objective function is minimized. We consider the case of positive finish-start time-lags $l_{ij}$ which mean that between the finishing time of job i and the starting time of job j the minimal distance $l_{ij}$ has to be respected. New complexity results are derived for single-machine problems with constant positive time-lags $l_{ij}=l$ which also lead to new results for  flow-shop problems with unit processing times and job precedences. Dynamic Programming Revisited: Improving Knapsack Algorithms .The contribution of this paper is twofold: At first an improved dynamic programming algorithm for the bounded knapsack problem is given. It decreases the running time for an instance with n items and capacity c from $O(nc\log c)$ to $O(nc)$, which is the same pseudopolynomial complexity as usually given for the 0--1 knapsack problem. In the second part a general approach based on dynamic programming is presented to reduce the storage requirements for combinatorial optimization problems where it is computationally more expensive to compute the explicit solution structure than the optimal solution value. Among other applications of this scheme it is shown that the 0--1 knapsack problem as well as the bounded knapsack problem can be solved in $O(nc)$ time and $O(n+c)$ space. Review of New Technologies for Learning: Contribution of ICT to innovation in education. by Dillemans, R., Lowyck, J., Van der Perre, G., Claeys, C. and Elen, J.  Volume Maximization  and Orthoconvex  Approximation of Orthogons .Let n axes-parallel hyperparallelepipeds (also called blocks) of the d-dimensional Euclidean space and a positive integer r be given. The volume maximization problem (VMP) selects at most r blocks such that the volume of their union becomes maximum. VMP is shown to be NP-hard in the 2-dimensional case and polynomially solvable for the line via a constrained critical path problem (CCPP) in an acyclic digraph. This CCPP leads to further well solvable special cases of the maximization problem. In particular, the following approximation problem (OAP) becomes polynomially solvable: given an orthogon P (i.e., a simple polygon in the plane which is a union of blocks) and a positive integer q, find an orthoconvex orthogon with at most q vertices and minimum area, which contains P. Introduction: Data Mining on the Internet  Issues associated with participation in on line forums—the case of the communicative learner This paper reports on participation within on-line forums. The focus is on asynchronous text based discussion within small groups of learners following a learning event or course. Participation is a key issue within such forums and research was carried out into adult learners' experiences within three case studies. Learners were positive about the forums in which they took part but participation was less than many would have liked. This paper describes the constraints on participation and outlines three patterns of participation—non participation, quiet participation and communicative participation. Discussion focuses on the communicative leaner—someone who participates regularly in forums and in ways which are broadly welcomed by others in the group. A profile of the communicative learner is developed in which the importance of fluency, coherence and informality is highlighted. The paper summarises the issues associated with on-line participation and their implications for supporting communicative participation. Semidefinite Programs and Association Schemes .We consider semidefinite programs, where the matrices defining the problem all arise from some association scheme. We show that in this case the semidefinite program can be solved through an ordinary linear program.  As an application, we consider the max-cut problem, where the underlying graph arises from an association scheme. Swedish and Lithuanian Students' Experience of Their Rights One important implication of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is that every child should be part of democratic society. In the present empirical study, students' (aged 12–14, 16–18) conceptions of democracy in two Swedish and two Lithuanian schools are compared. Comparisons on age and gender are also examined. The analysis shows certain similarities in the Sweden and Lithuanian students' concept of democracy, but differences emerge. A Dual Framework for Lower Bounds of the Quadratic Assignment Problem Based on Linearization .A dual framework allowing the comparison of various bounds for the quadratic assignment problem (QAP) based on linearization, e.g. the bounds of Adams and Johnson, Carraresi and Malucelli, and Hahn and Grant, is presented. We discuss the differences of these bounds and propose a new and more general bounding procedure based on the dual of the linearization of Adams and Johnson. The new procedure has been applied to problems of dimension up to $n=72$, and the computational results indicate that the new bound competes well with existing linearization bounds and yields a good trade off between computation time and bound quality. Writing a scientific article  Minimal Expansions in Redundant Number Systems and Shortest Paths in  Graphs .We consider digit expansions $n=\sum_{i=0}^l \epsilon_iq^i$
in redundant number systems to base q with $-(q-1)\le \epsilon_i\le q-1$ and consider such an expansion as minimal, if $l + \sum\nolimits_{i = 0}^l {|\varepsilon _i |} $ is minimal. We describe an efficient algorithm for determining a minimal representation and give an explicit characterization of optimal representations for odd q. Websom for Textual Data Mining New methods that are user-friendly and efficient are needed for guidanceamong the masses of textual information available in the Internet and theWorld Wide Web. We have developed a method and a tool called the WEBSOMwhich utilizes the self-organizing map algorithm (SOM) for organizing largecollections of text documents onto visual document maps. The approach toprocessing text is statistically oriented, computationally feasible, andscalable – over a million text documents have been ordered on a single map.In the article we consider different kinds of information needs and tasksregarding organizing, visualizing, searching, categorizing and filteringtextual data. Furthermore, we discuss and illustrate with examples howdocument maps can aid in these situations. An example is presented wherea document map is utilized as a tool for visualizing and filtering a stream ofincoming electronic mail messages. New Heuristics for the Multidimensional Vote Assignment Problem .Vote assignments are being used for the design of fault tolerant systems. They work in such a way that every node in a computer network gets assigned a certain number of votes. Furthermore, a quorum is defined. A transaction can only take place if the number of votes collected is greater than or equal to the quorum. These single dimensional vote assignments provide a compact representation of certain antichains, namely those which consist of the minimal sets of nodes achieving the quorum. Multidimensional (MD) vote assignments are a generalization of single dimensional vote assignments. In contrast to single dimensional vote assignments, MD vote assignments have the important property that every antichain has a corresponding MD vote assignment and vice versa. For the efficient design of fault tolerant systems, it is important that the dimension of a MD vote assignment is as small as possible. We introduce some new heuristics for calculating a MD vote assignment which perform better than the heuristics known so far.