A microprocessor-based real-time BASIC random interstimulus interval generator with different probability density functions A low-cost random interstimulus interval (ISI) generator with different probability density functions is described. The frequency histograms of the output ISIs are uniformly, normally, exponentially, and binary distributed functions. A microprocessor-based real-time BASIC laboratory: A pulse motor-controlled visual stimulator Using the Commodore PET as a random pulse generator, an inexpensive visual stimulator for psychophysical experiments can easily be made at low cost. The PIA interface that connects the external experimental devices is easily accessed by PEEKing and POKEing its registers with BASIC. Using pulse motors, two independent stimulator wheels, having 24 different color filters and a 2.4 log (.1 log unit steps) unit range light attenuator, are controlled by a randomized string of pulses via a PIA port, and the responses of the observer as well as the stimulus parameters are automatically written onto the cassette memory for further data analysis. Analyse und Synthese zuverlässiger Netze fassungDer Artikel gibt einen überblick über die in der Literatur behandelten Ansätze über Netzzuverlässigkeit. Das Netz wird dabei durch einen ungerichteten Graphen ohne Berücksichtigung der Nachfrage zwischen Knotenpaaren repräsentiert. In Abschnitt 2 sind die erforderlichen Definitionen gemacht, während in Abschnitt 3 Bedingungen für das Netz formuliert sind, die seine Funktionsfähigkeit (Intaktheit) kennzeichnen. Ein Maß für die Zuverlässigkeit des Netzes kann deterministisch sein oder probabilistisch. In Abschnitt 4 werden Analyse- und Syntheseverfahren für deterministische, in Abschnitt 5 für probabilistische Maße behandelt. Zum Schluß wird die Einbeziehung der Netzzuverlässigkeit in künftige Problemstellungen diskutiert.SummaryThis paper gives a survey of the approaches to network reliability dealt with in the relevant literature. The network is represented by an unoriented graph disregarding the traffic demand between pairs of vertices. The required definitions are made in section 2, whereas section 3 contains conditions for the functioning of the network. A measure for the network reliability may be deterministic or probabilistic. In section 4 and 5 analysis and synthesis methods are discussed for deterministic and probabilistic measures, respectively. The connection of network reliability with future problems is considered in the last section. New options for team research via international computer networks In this paper, international team research (ITR) is discussed as an object for measurement, systems analysis, and management. The paper is intended as a contribution to the development of a “problem” orientation in scientometrics. In the authors' view, scientometric studies can help solve the problem of efficient ITR in several ways-for instance, by identifying needed improvements in (a) international scientific communication in general, (b) scientific interactions within and among research teams as part of the creative process, and (c) the overall international usage of existing scientific knowledge. The paper discusses the machinery of ITR, models of scientific communication, and some original experience in using computers and telecommunications as tools for scientific interaction. All of these are potential objects for scientometric investigation. The paper itself performs some first steps in obtaining economic parameters for the different forms of international team research. Application of the algebra of cubic complexes to network reliability analysis  Computer control of memory experiments on a large-scale timesharing system This paper describes a computer system for running verbal learning and memory experiments using a large-scale timesharing computer. Its application is illustrated by control programs used to set up, execute, and analyze a series of interactive free recall experiments. While limitations of timesharing systems for experimental control surely exist, they can often be removed by simple hardware or software. Further, a large machine can provide significant advantages in cost and software development over dedicated laboratory minicomputers. It is possible to obtain the advantages of both types of systems by introducing local intelligence to provide more precise timing and flexible control of experimental devices, while retaining the power and hardware and software resources of the large machine. Some Service Aspects of the X25 Interface This paper reviews the problems in defining quality of service at the X25 interface, in the light of existing information on network service, and developments in the definition of X25 service between networks. Protocol Design Considerations for Network Security Although substantial effort has been expended in developing transport protocols for computer networks, comparatively little attention has been paid to providing network security capabilities in conjunction with such protocols. A wide range of passive and active wiretapping attacks can be thwarted by combining encryption and appropriate protocols to provide end-to-end protection for data transmitted between host computers connected via one or more communication networks. Careful classification of these attacks in the context of a simple connection (virtual circuit) model induces a set of five protection goals for this context. Two of these goals deal with countering passive wiretapping while the remaining three goals deal with detecting active wiretapping under various circumstances.Countermeasures directed toward achieving each of these goals can be developed and selectively employed as required. These countermeasures include careful segregation of protocol and application data according to the principle of least privilege, use of sequence numbers to uniquely identify every message, use of error detection codes matched to the encryption modes selected, periodic transmission of status checking messages, and a secure handshake procedure during connection initiation. These countermeasures can be integrated into new end-to-end transport protocols through careful design or can be retrofitted through introduction of an additional end-to-end protocol layer provided exclusively for security purposes. The former approach can significantly reduce the overhead associated with employing such measures but the latter approach is required to retrofit most existing transport protocols with security measures. The UK SRC Computer Network In this talk I shall be giving a case study of the ‘move to computer networking’ within a particular UK organisation, namely the UK Science Research Council. I shall be discussing both the requirements for computer networking from within this organisation and the technical problems of implementation. However, in order to set the scene I would like first to tell you a little about the work of the Science Research Council and about the work of its largest Laboratory, the Rutherford Laboratory. A Model for Interprocess Communication In order to facilitate the design of application level protocols on top of available transport services a model for interprocess communication has been developed within the PIX group which fits into layers 5, 6 and 7 of the ISO reference architecture for open systems. This model describes communication between processes at three levels of detail:
communication modescommunication variablesfield structure of communication variables.
Although a formal description of the model is not yet available the model has proved to be very useful for the design and agreement of a “Virtual terminal” and a RJE protocol within PIX. Protocols Standardization Versus Protocols Conversion in Computer Networks Interconnection The interconnection of computer networks raises both political and technical questions. In this paper, the present situation and the trends in the field of computer networks are firstly briefly examined, and the solution suggested by political considerations is outlined.Then, alternative approaches to the interconnection of computer networks are considered from a technical point of view. This mainly involves considerations on protocols and the possibilities of mapping them into one another. Both approaches to computer networks interconnection usually proposed (namely, the hop-by-hop and the endpoint approaches) are considered: it is shown that they do not oppose to each other, but rather coexist in a unique architecture. In fact, there is one level at which protocols are hop-by-hop connected, while all protocols at higher levels are implemented following an endpoint approach.Technical reasons once again suggest the same solution for the interconnection of computer networks as the political ones. This eventually consists in an endpoint implementation of End-to-End and higher level protocols that operate on the top of a communication subsystem resulting from a hop-by-hop interconnection (at the Host-Node level) of the participating communication subsystems. Operation of the Cyclades Network To communicate with each other, the computers of the CYCLADES network use a packet switching network called CIGALE. CIGALE is made of leased telephone lines and CII minicomputers MITRA 15.It was decided to centralize at the Network Control Center (CCR) the monitoring and control of CIGALE primarily because of the problems raised by the decentralization of its components. In this distributed environment, particular techniques of automatic control and monitoring are required (adaptive routing, self-monitoring of the nodes…). In addition, the use of geographically distributed tools is indispensable to help in diagnosis of failures (Echo, Debug, Trace, etc). Some more specific tools allow to handle the node system remotely from the CCR: stop, dump, load. The reliability of the network components is evaluated by various failure statistics (MTBF and MTTR). The global network service level is appreciated on a weekly basis by computing the availability rate of a path between any two hosts in the network. Some International Developments in Data Services This paper reviews developments in data communication services. Most of the paper is concerned with the development of Public data networks. In addition, some other services,such as Telex, Facsimile and Prestel are considered in view of their influence on PTT data networks. Message Services in Computer Networks In this paper we discuss the key issues in the generation and distribution of messages in a computer network. The principal issues are: user support, privacy and security, addressing, and standards and regulations. Examples of current message systems on the ARPANET are discussed. Process Communication Structures for Distributed Systems In this paper problems of process interactions in a distributed system are discussed. Some basic process structures are analyzed and it is shown which communication and synchronization elements are necessary to realize a certain structure. These basic structures can be used to build any complex distributed process system.The Distributed Data Base Management System POREL is taken as an example to show how to use the proposed model in a rather complex system with distributed control.This work has been supported by ERO Grant No. DAERO-79-G-0008 and by DFG No. 210/3. Flow Control in the GMD-Network One of the goals of the GMD-Network development was the design, analysis and implementation of a fully recursive set of transport protocols applying the ‘virtual line switching’ technique. This work resulted in some insights into
deadlock preventionflow controland interface design
problems, which are of general interest. The paper examines the GMD-Net protocols from the flow control point-of-view and presents simulation results for different aspects of the network behaviour. Experience from Two Forms of Inter-Network Connection This paper summarises the experience gained by two groups working at the UK National Physical Laboratory on the problems associated with providing inter-network facilities between dissimilar networks.Both groups have implemented ‘gateway’ facilities to the internal NPL (single node) datagram network. These connect, on the one hand, to the European Infomatics Network (EIN), a ‘datagram’ network; and on the other, to the UK Post Office Experimental Packet Switched Service (EPSS), a ‘virtual call’ network. Defense Packet Switching Networks in the United States In this paper we review the primary characteristics of the U.S. Department of Defense packet switching networks -- ARPANET, AUTODIN II, and WIN. Special requirements for dedicated defense networks are examined. These include privacy and security, precedence, survivability, availability, and interoperability with other networks. Finally, we discuss some architectural concepts for an all digital integrated voice/data network for defense applications in the 1990’s. DARPA Activities in Packet Network Interconnection A fundamental premise of all current Command, Control and Communications (C3) research is that digital technology and computing systems will play a central role in the future. It is already apparent that computers are being employed in tactical as well as strategic military equipment both to replace older technology and to significantly improve our ability to control weapons systems. Automatic fire control, computer-aided information collection and correlation, computer-controlled array sensors and computer-controlled communication systems are all symptomatic of an increasingly automated C3 environment. Users’ View of a National Network: A Survey by the UK National Committee on Computer Networks In Britain the Secretary of State for Industry has a two-fold interest in computer networking. He is head of the Department which is concerned with the progress and development of the industries, amongst others, which make either computing or telecommunications equipment; and he is the Minister responsible for the Post Office, the body which, like the PTT’s in continental Europe, is responsible for the country’s postal and telecommunications services. He set up the National Committee on Computer Networks (the NCCN) in the summer of 1976 with the general aim of giving advice on the need or otherwise for a public network oriented towards data and computer communications, and on the ways of meeting such a need if it existed. On Interconnection of Computer Networks This paper focuses on two main issues: first, the need to allow users to specify, in a generic, network-independent way the Type-of-Service (TOS) they need; and second, the importance of separating internetwork communication from the Host-to-Host and End-to-End protocols.The Internetwork protocol (INP) can be introduced between the local communication network level and the Host-to-Host level in a network independent fashion. Such an INP can be implemented with relative simplicity, as the experience in the ARPA community shows. Stochastic filtering theory: A discussion of concepts, methods, and results  Interfaces in a Computer Network for the Medical Schools in Bavaria In the last decade there have been activities in countless hospitals and medical schools with the goal of utilizing computers for administrative, medical and scientific work. In 1977 the medical schools of Bavaria decided to pool their efforts in order to attempt the development of a mutual system. The first result of this enterprise was a paper appearing in late 1977 with the heading: “Skeleton Plan for the Ulitization of Electronic Computers in the Medical Schools of Bavaria” (8). Congestion Control in Hierarchical Networks  Canadian Public Switched Data Networks - Infoswitch and Datapac Packet switching data networks have existed in experimental form for a number of years. This experimental work has resulted, directly or indirectly, in the development of commercial packet switching networks some of which have already been in operation for a few years.In Canada there are two such networks in operation presently,
one owned and operated by the Trans-Canada Telephone System
(TCTS) called DATAPAC, and the other owned and operated by CNCP Telecommunications called INFOSWITCH. This latter network provides both packet and circuit switching services.This paper presents a review of the basic features of these two networks and the services which they provide to the user. It also addresses the question of international connections of these networks to other public switched data networks and describes how this has been accomplished in the case of Datapac’s connection to the Telenet and Tymnet networks in the USA. The role of CCITT Recommendation X.75 relative to international interconnection is also considered. The North-West Universities Network This paper provides an overview of the North-West Universities Network from the establishment of a network requirement, through selection to installation. The fundamental features of the network design are considered and the developments undertaken to tailor the system to the university environment are discussed. Management issues are touched upon and some consideration is given to issues arising from initial experiences in the provision of a network service to users. The relation of protocols to standards is mentioned and finally the future direction of the network is indicated. Protocols and Network Interconnection As the number of computer networks is increasing more and more, it will become more desirable to carry out interconnections between them. Satellite Communications Systems and the European Project Stella 
The aim of this talk is to give a broad survey of the main features of communications systems based on a satellite repeater serving a large number of small dish earth stations. Small dish in this case means non-tracking dishes with diameters in the range 3 metres to 7 metres, with the number of stations served ranging from 100 upwards. The general method of operation of these systems is for the stations to beam up signals to the satellite at one frequency and for the satellite repeater to broadcast these signals down to all the stations using another frequency. EPSS Developments The history and development of the British Post Office Experimental Packet Switched Service are described. Details of the hardware and software are given, and the problems encountered while setting up the network are outlined. Although the emergence of X25 has ensured that the EPSS will not become a national service, the Post Office have learned some valuable lessons, and these are discussed together with the lessons learned by the data- communications users. Organization and Technical Problems of the European Informatics Network The European Informatics Network (EIN) also known as the COST 11 Action, is a research project aiming at the definition, design and implementation of a packet switched telecommunications subnetwork between European research centres and the conduct of a co-ordinated research programme between several interested research environments.An overview is given of the history and present achievements of this project including experiences from experimental use of the telecommunications sub-network which was implemented by May 1977.Emphasis is also given to the organization of a project with realistic collaboration between many European institutes, and the organizatorial requirements for co-ordinated research. The British Steel Corporation Network The British Steel Corporation has recently commissioned a packet switched Data Communications Network. This paper considers the reasons why BSC decided to undertake such a development and describes its design and facilities. Operation and performance of the network and plans for its future development are also considered. Trends in European Network Developments The task being Head of Marketing Development for New Data Services in the UK Post Office involves not only being aware of what existing services are available to the User now as well as prospective enhancements, but what services and facilities will the User require over the next decade. In endeavouring to deter-mine In which direction we should be going it has been essential not only to understand the UK but to look at the overall European situation and trends and relate one’s own national problems to that of Marketing specialists In other European countries. The purpose of this paper is to give the widest overview possible not only as seen within the UK but also from a general Euorpean view-point bearing in mind that situations vary considerably from country to country, as do the current state of developments, government legislation and of most importance the User requirements. Networking Among UK Universities This case study describes an exercise to formulate plans for network development among computer centres in UK universities and research institutes. Though there are obviously certain features which are peculiar to this environment, some of the general difficulties described will undoubtedly bear an uncanny resemblance to those encountered elsewhere. An understanding of the background will be important in explaining the structure of the proposals. UK Post Office Current and Future Plans viewThe UK PO provides a number of operationally existing and experimental data services namely:-
a.Datel Services (on the PSTN and leased lines)b.Leased circuitsc.Dataplex Servicesd.Telegraph and Telexe.Midnight Linef.EPSS (Experimental Packet Switched Service) On-Line Computers in Nuclear Power Plants a Review Digital computers play an important part in the design of nuclear power plants, and on-line computer systems now occupy an important place in plant operation. The basic reasons for introducing computers into power plants are considered, and the control and display facilities that they are required to provide are discussed. Special reference is made to security requirements and to the system configurations employed to provide high integrity, including the case in which computers are used in reactor protection systems. Some examples of systems in service are described, and their performance is discussed with special reference to difficulties and inadequacies that have been experienced. Implications of current trends in technology are discussed and conclusions reached on future trends. Cryptography and Crypto-Systems In this section we shall describe what modern cryptographic methods are expected to achieve - the criteria of security they have to meet. It would be convenient if there were proofs of the security of a cryptographic algorithm but this is not so. At best they can be shown to resist the known methods of attack. Current CCITT Data Standards This paper reviews recent developments towards promoting effective communication of data among computers and terminal equipment through the standardization of interfaces for public data networks. It focusses particularly on the work of CCITT Study Group VII, Public Data Networks, with some mention of the work of Study Group XVII, Data Transmission over Telephone and Telex Networks.Principle areas for standardization are presented and the results of CCITT activities in producing recommendations in each of these areas is dealt with. In the case of packet and circuit switching networks specific interfaces such as X.21, X.75 and X.25 are presented in brief summary form.Finally future directions for standardization are presenter and a review of the items of standardization work being pursued most vigorously is given. This includes work on the Frame Mode Interface, proposed enhancements to X.25, and provision for communication between non-packet mode DTE’s connected to a packet switching data network via a packet assembly/disassembly unit (PAD). Transfer of Cyclades Applications Towards Transpac Network One Solution: The ST3 Software This paper describes a part of a research work made at ESE under contract with CNET (Centre National d’Etudes des Télécommunications) through CCETT (Centre Commun d’Etudes de Television et de Telecommunications). Its purpose was to define and implement ST3, an experimental Network Control Program (NCP) for the TRANSPAC network, in order to offer the same users network access as featured into ‘ST2’ the NCP implemented by IRIA and CII-HB for the CYCLADES network.ST2 and ST3 should be simultaneously accessible in a same computer used as an experimental gateway between the two networks at applications level. ST3 was to match the most of ST2 into X25 features. It seemed interesting to divide ST3 into an X25 ‘transport station’ (STX25) and an ‘interface converter’.STX25 offers to users’ programs an acces to X25 facilities, with ‘message’ (letter) management and additionnal subaddressing. The STX25 user’s interface and structure is widely drawn from ST2. If one accepts the loss of some particular details of ST2, the interface converter became fairly easy to implement.This software is implemented on CCETT’s IRIS 80 computer, using LAP/ECMA link acces protocol. Das “Virtual device protocol” (VDP) fassungDas Virtual device protocol entstand durch gemeinsame Bemühungen der Firmen CII-HB, ICL und Siemens. A novel role of computers in the natural products field We describe several computer programs developed in our laboratory as aids in the determination of unknown molecular structures. These programs include CONGEN [1], for determination of all plausible structural candidates; REACT [2, 3], for simulation of sequences of chemical reactions; and STRUCC, for evaluating candidates and planning new experiments. We stress the importance of symbiosis between chemist and computer, the combination building on their respective strengths to increase the speed and accuracy of structural assignments. Application Development and Application Support in the Distributed Data Base Management System Porel Usina data base systems for application oriented activities requires the development of suitable data base interfaces. In this paper the application support system which will be built on top of the distributed DBMS POREL is presented. Emphasis is placed on the structuring principles developed for the description of applications and corresponding application operators. These structuring principles result in graph structures which are generalized AND/OR graphs. Also discussed are the enduser functions which are based on this descriptive information. Einsatz von Digitalrechnern in der nuklearmedizinischen Herzfunktionsdiagnostik fassungBei nuklearmedizinischen Untersuchungen ist der primäre Informationsträger ein zeit-, orts-und energievariables Kernstrahlungsfeld. Es wird nach Inkorporation radioaktiver Nuklide vom lebenden Körper emittiert. Je nach Wahl der radioaktiven TracerSubstanz sind Abbildungen verschiedener Organsysteme in ihrer Funktion über längere Zeitabschnitte möglich. Die Meßwerterfassung erfolgt von außen ohne störende Eingriffe in das zu untersuchende Organsystem. Die Strahlenbelastung ist in vergleichbaren Fällen häufig niedriger als bei Röntgenuntersu-chungen. Physiologische und pathophysiologische Vorgänge können durch das Tracerprinzip im molekularen Bereich sichtbar gemacht werden. Die Bilder, die die Verteilung von Radioaktivität im menschlichen Körper repräsentieren, heißen Szintigramme. Sie dienen der Erkennung von Form-, Lage-, Größen-und Funktionsanomalien einzelner Organe. Szintigramme werden von Szintigraphiesystemen mit beweglichen und feststehenden Detektoren erzeugt (1, 29). Die moderne Sequenz-und Funktionsszintigraphie beginnt mit der Verarbeitung bildgebender Instrumente mit einem feststehenden Detektor und der parallellaufenden Entwicklung nuklearmedizinischer Auswertesysteme mit Digitalrechner (2, 3, 4, 5, 30). Architektur Offener Kommunikationssysteme — Stand der Normungsarbeit — Die internationale Normungsarbeit an offenen Kommunikationssystemen hat zum Ziel, Datenendeinrichtungen unterschiedlicher Hersteller in die Lage zu versetzen, miteinander zu kommunizieren und zu kooperieren.Diese Fähigkeit erhalten die Datenendeinrichtungen dadurch, daß sie ihr externes Verhalten bestimmende Protokollnorm einhalten, die einer einheitlichen Kommunikationsarchitektur folgen.Der vorliegende Beitrag beschreibt den aktuellen Stand der Normungsarbeit an dieser Kommunikationsarchitektur. The current status of the generalised moore graph problem  Job Transfer in Open Systems The general understanding of Job Transfer/Remote Job Entry in an Open System Architecture is outlined and functions necessary to perform a Job Transfer service according to that understanding are discussed. Guide line for the discussion is the idea of job networking. In a slightly different way most of existing JT/RJE protocols apply this netjob idea. The description of a netjob and its execution according to the communication protocol are explained. On that basis and with regard to the ISO layered model the question of how to proceed with standardisation is discussed.