The Latin American Social Medicine database BackgroundPublic health practitioners and researchers for many years have been attempting to understand more clearly the links between social conditions and the health of populations. Until recently, most public health professionals in English-speaking countries were unaware that their colleagues in Latin America had developed an entire field of inquiry and practice devoted to making these links more clearly understood. The Latin American Social Medicine (LASM) database finally bridges this previous gap.DescriptionThis public health informatics case study describes the key features of a unique information resource intended to improve access to LASM literature and to augment understanding about the social determinants of health. This case study includes both quantitative and qualitative evaluation data. Currently the LASM database at The University of New Mexico http://hsc.unm.edu/lasm brings important information, originally known mostly within professional networks located in Latin American countries to public health professionals worldwide via the Internet. The LASM database uses Spanish, Portuguese, and English language trilingual, structured abstracts to summarize classic and contemporary works.ConclusionThis database provides helpful information for public health professionals on the social determinants of health and expands access to LASM. The effectiveness of metal on metal hip resurfacing: a systematic review of the available evidence published before 2002 BackgroundConventional total hip replacement (THR) may be felt to carry too high a risk of failure over a patient's lifetime, especially in young people. There is increasing interest in metal on metal hip resurfacing arthroplasty (MoM) as this offers a bone-conserving option for treating those patients who are not considered eligible for THR. We aim to evaluate the effectiveness of MoM for treatment of hip disease, and compare it with alternative treatments for hip disease offered within the UK.MethodsA systematic review was carried out to identify the relevant literature on MoM published before 2002. As watchful waiting and total hip replacement are alternative methods commonly used to alleviate the symptoms of degenerative joint disease of the hip, we compared MoM with these.ResultsThe data on the effectiveness of MoM are scarce, as it is a relatively new technique and at present only short-term results are available.ConclusionIt is not possible to make any firm conclusions about the effectiveness of MoM based on these early results. While the short-term results are promising, it is unclear if such results would be replicated in more rigorous studies, and what the long-term performance might be. Further research is needed which ideally should involve long-term randomised comparisons of MoM with alternative approaches to the clinical management of hip disease. Using ontologies to describe mouse phenotypes The mouse is an important model of human genetic disease. Describing phenotypes of mutant mice in a standard, structured manner that will facilitate data mining is a major challenge for bioinformatics. Here we describe a novel, compositional approach to this problem which combines core ontologies from a variety of sources. This produces a framework with greater flexibility, power and economy than previous approaches. We discuss some of the issues this approach raises. SARS and hospital priority setting: a qualitative case study and evaluation BackgroundPriority setting is one of the most difficult issues facing hospitals because of funding restrictions and changing patient need. A deadly communicable disease outbreak, such as the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) in Toronto in 2003, amplifies the difficulties of hospital priority setting. The purpose of this study is to describe and evaluate priority setting in a hospital in response to SARS using the ethical framework 'accountability for reasonableness'.MethodsThis study was conducted at a large tertiary hospital in Toronto, Canada. There were two data sources: 1) over 200 key documents (e.g. emails, bulletins), and 2) 35 interviews with key informants. Analysis used a modified thematic technique in three phases: open coding, axial coding, and evaluation.ResultsParticipants described the types of priority setting decisions, the decision making process and the reasoning used. Although the hospital leadership made an effort to meet the conditions of 'accountability for reasonableness', they acknowledged that the decision making was not ideal. We described good practices and opportunities for improvement.Conclusions'Accountability for reasonableness' is a framework that can be used to guide fair priority setting in health care organizations, such as hospitals. In the midst of a crisis such as SARS where guidance is incomplete, consequences uncertain, and information constantly changing, where hour-by-hour decisions involve life and death, fairness is more important rather than less. Gene Ontology: looking backwards and forwards The Gene Ontology consortium began six years ago with a group of scientists who decided to connect our data by sharing the same language for describing it. Its most significant achievement lies in uniting many independent biological database efforts into a cooperative force. A suite of web applications to streamline the interdisciplinary collaboration in secondary data analyses BackgroundWe describe a system of web applications designed to streamline the interdisciplinary collaboration in outcomes research.DescriptionThe outcomes research process can be described as a set of three interrelated phases: design and selection of data sources, analysis, and output. Each of these phases has inherent challenges that can be addressed by a group of five web applications developed by our group. QuestForm allows for the formulation of relevant and well-structured outcomes research questions; Research Manager facilitates the project management and electronic file exchange among researchers; Analysis Charts facilitate the communication of complex statistical techniques to clinicians with varying previous levels of statistical knowledge; Literature Matrices improve the efficiency of literature reviews. An outcomes research question is used to illustrate the use of the system.ConclusionsThe system presents an alternative to streamline the interdisciplinary collaboration of clinicians, statisticians, programmers, and graduate students. Quantitative evaluation of recall and precision of CAT Crawler, a search engine specialized on retrieval of Critically Appraised Topics BackgroundCritically Appraised Topics (CATs) are a useful tool that helps physicians to make clinical decisions as the healthcare moves towards the practice of Evidence-Based Medicine (EBM). The fast growing World Wide Web has provided a place for physicians to share their appraised topics online, but an increasing amount of time is needed to find a particular topic within such a rich repository.MethodsA web-based application, namely the CAT Crawler, was developed by Singapore's Bioinformatics Institute to allow physicians to adequately access available appraised topics on the Internet. A meta-search engine, as the core component of the application, finds relevant topics following keyword input. The primary objective of the work presented here is to evaluate the quantity and quality of search results obtained from the meta-search engine of the CAT Crawler by comparing them with those obtained from two individual CAT search engines. From the CAT libraries at these two sites, all possible keywords were extracted using a keyword extractor. Of those common to both libraries, ten were randomly chosen for evaluation. All ten were submitted to the two search engines individually, and through the meta-search engine of the CAT Crawler. Search results were evaluated for relevance both by medical amateurs and professionals, and the respective recall and precision were calculated.ResultsWhile achieving an identical recall, the meta-search engine showed a precision of 77.26% (±14.45) compared to the individual search engines' 52.65% (±12.0) (p < 0.001).ConclusionThe results demonstrate the validity of the CAT Crawler meta-search engine approach. The improved precision due to inherent filters underlines the practical usefulness of this tool for clinicians. GOLD.db: genomics of lipid-associated disorders database BackgroundThe GOLD.db (Genomics of Lipid-Associated Disorders Database) was developed to address the need for integrating disparate information on the function and properties of genes and their products that are particularly relevant to the biology, diagnosis management, treatment, and prevention of lipid-associated disorders.DescriptionThe GOLD.db http://gold.tugraz.at provides a reference for pathways and information about the relevant genes and proteins in an efficiently organized way. The main focus was to provide biological pathways with image maps and visual pathway information for lipid metabolism and obesity-related research. This database provides also the possibility to map gene expression data individually to each pathway. Gene expression at different experimental conditions can be viewed sequentially in context of the pathway. Related large scale gene expression data sets were provided and can be searched for specific genes to integrate information regarding their expression levels in different studies and conditions. Analytic and data mining tools, reagents, protocols, references, and links to relevant genomic resources were included in the database. Finally, the usability of the database was demonstrated using an example about the regulation of Pten mRNA during adipocyte differentiation in the context of relevant pathways.ConclusionsThe GOLD.db will be a valuable tool that allow researchers to efficiently analyze patterns of gene expression and to display them in a variety of useful and informative ways, allowing outside researchers to perform queries pertaining to gene expression results in the context of biological processes and pathways. Factors associated with herbal use among urban multiethnic primary care patients: a cross-sectional survey BackgroundThe use of herbal supplements in the United States has become increasingly popular. The prevalence of herbal use among primary care patients varies in previous studies; the pattern of herbal use among urban racially/ethnically diverse primary care patients has not been widely studied. The primary objectives of this study were to describe the use of herbs by ethnically diverse primary care patients in a large metropolitan area and to examine factors associated with such use. The secondary objective was to investigate perceptions about and patterns of herbal use.MethodsData for a cross-sectional survey were collected at primary care practices affiliated with the Southern Primary-care Urban Research Network (SPUR-Net) in Houston, Texas, from September 2002 to March 2003. To participate in the study, patients had to be at least 18 years of age and visiting one of the SPUR-Net clinics for routine, nonacute care. Survey questions were available in both English and Spanish.ResultsA total of 322 patients who had complete information on race/ethnicity were included in the analysis. Overall, 36% of the surveyed patients (n = 322) indicated use of herbs, with wide variability among ethnic groups: 50% of Hispanics, 50% of Asians, 41% of Whites, and 22% of African-Americans. Significant factors associated with an individual's herbal use were ethnicity other than African-American, having an immigrant family history, and reporting herbal use by other family members. About 40% of survey respondents believed that taking prescription medications and herbal medicines together was more effective than taking either alone. One-third of herbal users reported using herbs on a daily basis. More Whites (67%) disclosed their herbal use to their health-care providers than did African-Americans (45%), Hispanics (31%), or Asians (31%).ConclusionsRacial/ethnic differences in herbal use were apparent among this sample of urban multiethnic adult primary care patients. Associated factors of herbal use were non-African-American ethnicity, immigrant family history, and herbal use among family members. Whereas Hispanics and Asians reported the highest rates of herbal use, they were the least likely to disclose their use to health-care professionals. These findings are important for ensuring medication safety in primary care practices. Integrating XML and Relational Database Systems Relational databases get more and more employed in order to store the content of a web site. At the same time, XML is fast emerging as the dominant standard at the hypertext level of web site management describing pages and links between them. Thus, the integration of XML with relational database systems to enable the storage, retrieval, and update of XML documents is of major importance. Data model heterogeneity and schema heterogeneity, however, make this a challenging task. In this respect, the contribution of this paper is threefold. First, a comparison of concepts available in XML schema specification languages and relational database systems is provided. Second, basic kinds of mappings between XML concepts and relational concepts are presented and reasonable mappings in terms of mapping patterns are determined. Third, design alternatives for integrating XML and relational database systems are examined and X-Ray, a generic approach for integrating XML with relational database systems is proposed. Finally, an in-depth evaluation of related approaches illustrates the current state of the art with respect to the design goals of X-Ray. MARVIN: A Web-Based System for Representing, Retrieving, and Visualizing Analogies Analogies are essential in human cognition, reasoning, learning, communication, and problem solving. They can have a profound and broad effect on how we view and understand our world. In this paper we discuss the design, implementation, and evaluation of MARVIN (Markup for Analogy Representation and Visualization for the InterNet), a Web-based system for representing, retrieving, and visualizing human-conceived analogies that provides a medium and a common language for analogy practitioners to share their analogies. We developed a compact XML content model for analogy expressions for use in Web-based environments, and show that the model is capable of representing a wide range of human-conceived analogies. We demonstrate, using XSLT, several example methods for visualizing analogy expressions that use our model. We demonstrate methods for storing and retrieving such expressions and for ranking the retrieved expressions. We designed and implemented MARVIN to demonstrate these methods. A formative evaluation of the MARVIN system found that its visualization and retrieval capabilities are of value to analogy authors and end users. A performance test showed that MARVIN's analogy retrieval is scalable to large analogy archives. Spatial-temporal analysis of regional disparities of internet development in China This paper attempts to summarize the disparities of Internet development in China spatially-temporally. The major objective is to measure the differences between Eastern, Central and Western China. Methods of map presentation, correlation, Lorenz curve, Gini Coefficient and location quotient analysis are conducted in this study. For convenience, the indicator of regional Internet development is simplified as the number of domain names registered under .CN in each province. The data used are collected from the semi-annual surveys of the Statistical Survey Report on the Internet Development in China since 1999. There are several findings: 1) The number of domain names in each province (city) declines gradually from the east to the west. 2) The gap between the highest growth provinces (cities) and the lowest ones is rather large. 3) Although the absolute differences between the eastern, central and western China have been enlarged, the relative differences in each province (city) have remained constant. 4) Provinces (cities) are classified into three types according to location quotient changes, namely, rising type, changeless type and declining type. Compared with industrial and economic growth, Internet sector in the eastern and western China is relatively ascending, while that in the central China is descending. 5) The number of domain names at provincial level is not statistically consistent with GDP. Service Quality and Perceived Value's Impact on Satisfaction, Intention and Usage of Short Message Service (SMS) SMS, being an almost instantaneous communication medium that connects people, is now a phenomenon that has grown and spread around the globe at an amazing speed. Given the current trend of SMS usage and its potential growth, this paper will provide an insight of the extent to which how service quality and the value perceived by the SMS users have an impact on their extent of the SMS usage in the post SMS adoption phase. Specifically, this article will examine how service quality of the service providers and perceived value affect customer satisfaction and how customer satisfaction will affect their behavioural intention to continue to use SMS which in turn affects the extent of SMS usage in the local context. Using partial-least-squares, an analysis was conducted based on the 150 surveys collected to test for the proposed relationships. The results showed that the tangibles, empathy and assurance dimensions of service quality are antecedents of customer satisfaction and a positive relationship exists between customer satisfaction and customers' behavioural intentions to continue to use SMS. Additionally, the positive relationship between customers' behavioural intentions to continue to use SMS and the extent of SMS usage is also significant. These results were similar to the results shown by Cronin and Taylor (1992) studies. The perceived value/customer satisfaction relationship investigated in this research was in line with Fornell et al.(1996) and Cronin et al.(2000) where perceived value was one of the determinants of customer satisfaction. Specially, the results revealed that perceived value, together with tangibles, empathy and assurance aspects of the service quality, played an important role in determining customer satisfaction for SMS. Implications of the above results for research and practice are discussed. Consumers' Online Information Search Behavior and the Phenomenon of Search vs. Experience Products This study investigates consumers' importance evaluation and usage of the Internet as an information source, compared with other traditional information sources. The main issue is the extent to which experience products can be transformed so as to be searchable on the Internet. The results of a web-based survey showed that consumers of experience products tended to use more online information than those of search products. Online information sources from other consumers and neutral sources were perceived to be more important and were used more often by the consumers of experience products; whereas retailer/manufacturer websites were perceived to be more useful by consumers of search products. Perceived usefulness, perceived ease-of-use, market mavenism, and usage of offline information sources were also positively related to the usage of online information. Self-regulation in a web-based course: A case study Little is known about how successful students in Web-based courses self-regulate their learning. This descriptive case study used a social cognitive model of self-regulated learning (SRL) to investigate how six graduate students used and adapted traditional SRL strategies to complete tasks and cope with challenges in a Web-based technology course; it also explored motivational and environmental influences on strategy use. Primary data sources were three transcribed interviews with each of the students over the course of the semester, a transcribed interview with the course instructor, and the students' reflective journals. Archived course documents, including transcripts of threaded discussions and student Web pages, were secondary data sources. Content analysis of the data indicated that these students used many traditional SRL strategies, but they also adapted planning, organization, environmental structuring, help seeking, monitoring, record keeping, and self-reflection strategies in ways that were unique to the Web-based learning environment. The data also suggested that important motivational influences on SRL strategy use—self-efficacy, goal orientation, interest, and attributions—were shaped largely by student successes in managing the technical and social environment of the course. Important environmental influences on SRL strategy use included instructor support, peer support, and course design. Implications for online course instructors and designers, and suggestions for future research are offered. Information flow structure in large-scale product development organizational networks This paper analyzes the statistical properties of real-world networks of people engaged in product development (PD) activities. We show that complex PD networks display similar statistical patterns to other real-world complex social, information, biological and technological networks. The paper lays out the foundations for understanding the properties of other intra- and inter-organizational networks that are realized by specific network architectures. The paper also provides a general framework towards characterizing the functionality, dynamics, robustness, and fragility of smart business networks. Constructing Consensus Ontologies for the Semantic Web: A Conceptual Approach Organizational knowledge typically comes from numerous independent sources, each with its own semantics. This paper describes a methodology by which information from large numbers of such sources can be associated, organized, and merged. The hypothesis is that a multiplicity of ontology fragments, representing the semantics of the independent sources, can be related to each other automatically without the use of a global ontology. That is, any pair of ontologies can be related indirectly through a semantic bridge consisting of many other previously unrelated ontologies, even when there is no way to determine a direct relationship between them. The relationships among the ontology fragments indicate the relationships among the sources, enabling the source information to be categorized and organized. An evaluation of the methodology has been conducted by relating numerous small, independently developed ontologies for several domains. A nice feature of the methodology is that common parts of the ontologies reinforce each other, while unique parts are deemphasized. The result is a consensus ontology. Estimation of heavy-tailed probability density function with application to Web data ommon non-parametric estimators of a probability density function (PDF) show bad performance for heavy-tailed PDFs. Using a parametric approximation of the true cumulative distribution function (CDF), the transformation-retransformation of the data is explored here as a useful tool for the reliable PDF prediction. The PDF estimators are compared by their capacity to solve a classification problem. Simulation results and an application to Web data analysis are presented, too. mPERSONA: Personalized Portals for the Wireless User: An Agent Approach The needs of the wireless and mobile user regarding information access and services are quite different than those of the desktop user. This need is not about browsing the Web but about receiving personalized services that are highly sensitive to the immediate environment and requirements of the user. Personalization appears to be the most appropriate solution to this need. It comes into aid by creating personalized portals that are specific for the wireless user, which (a) are focus on the local content and (b) directly tones down factors that break up the functionally of the Internet/wireless services when viewed through wireless devices; factors like the “click count”, user response time (the “choice” factor) and the size of the wireless network traffic. In this paper we present a flexible personalization system for the wireless user that takes into consideration user mobility, the local environment and the user and device profile. The system utilizes the various characteristics of mobile agents to support flexibility, scalability, modularity and user mobility. We present metrics appropriate to the wireless environment, and an initial performance evaluation indicating improvement ranging from 33% up to, for certain metrics, 60%. An Improvement of Response Speed for Electronic Commerce Systems Now that the number of electronic commerce (hereunder called e-commerce) users has been explosively increasing, the consequent heavy network traffic leads to the delayed service of the e-commerce systems. This paper focuses on operational efficiency and response speed of the e-commerce systems. An e-commerce system, with a hierarchical structure based on the local server, is designed. And we proposed a web object replacement algorithm with heterogeneity of a web object. The algorithm is designed with a divided scope that considered size reference characteristic and reduced size heterogeneity on web object. The performances of the system and algorithm are analyzed with an experiment. With the experiment results, the algorithm is compared with previous replacement algorithms, and we confirm with 10–20% performance improvement of object-hit ratio gain. And we get with 15–30% performance improvement of response speed with proposed system. S-PLUS code for ordinal correspondence analysis orrespondence analysis is a popular graphical tool used to analyse contingency tables. In the past, it has commonly been performed by applying a singular value decomposition to a transformation of the data in the contingency table. A recent advance in its theory is to perform a bivariate moment decomposition instead. This approach is especially useful for the detection of linear and non-linear associations between ordinal variables; a feature not readily available using singular value decomposition.This paper outlines S-PLUS code that will perform correspondence analysis using bivariate moment decomposition. It also includes a simple plotting function that will enable the graphical interpretation of the different levels of association. User preference mining techniques for personalized applications Advanced personalized e-applications require comprehensive knowledge about their users’ likes and dislikes in order to provide individual product recommendations, personal customer advice, and custom-tailored product offers. In our approach we model such preferences as strict partial orders with “A is better than B” semantics, which has been proven to be very suitable in various e-applications. In this paper we present preference mining techniques for detecting strict partial order preferences in user log data. Real-life e-applications like online shops or financial services usually have large log data sets containing the transactions of their customers. Since the preference miner uses sophisticated SQL operations to execute all data intensive operations on database layer, our algorithms scale well even for such large log data sets. With preference mining personalized e-applications can gain valuable knowledge about their customers’ preferences, which can be applied for personalized product recommendations, individual customer service, or one-to-one marketing. Information Technology in the Future of Health Care Technology advances have changed the face of health care. This paradigm shift blurred the boundaries between public health, acute care, and prevention. Technology's role in the diagnosis, treatment assignment, follow-ups, and prevention will be reviewed and future impact projected. The understanding of shift in our expectation for each aspect of health care is critical so that levels of success are understood. Technology advances in health care delivery will be discussed. Specific applications are presented and explained and future trends discussed. Four applications are defined, and related to categories of technologies and their attributes. Interactive Simulation System for Artificial Ventilation on the Internet: Virtual Ventilator Objective. To develop an interactive simulation system “virtual ventilator” that demonstrates the dynamics of pressure and flow in the respiratory system under the combination of spontaneous breathing, ventilation modes, and ventilator options. The simulation system was designed to be used by unexperienced health care professionals as a self-training tool. Methods. The system consists of a simulation controller and three modules: respiratory, spontaneous breath, and ventilator. The respiratory module models the respiratory system by three resistances representing the main airway, the right and left lungs, and two compliances also representing the right and left lungs. The spontaneous breath module generates inspiratory negative pressure produced by a patient. The ventilator module generates driving force of pressure or flow according to the combination of the ventilation mode and options. These forces are given to the respiratory module through the simulation controller. Results. The simulation system was developed using HTML, VBScript (3000 lines, 100 kB) and ActiveX control (120 kB), and runs on Internet Explorer (5.5 or higher). The spontaneous breath is defined by a frequency, amplitude and inspiratory patterns in the spontaneous breath module. The user can construct a ventilation mode by setting a control variable, phase variables (trigger, limit, and cycle), and options. Available ventilation modes are: controlled mechanical ventilation (CMV), continuous positive airway pressure, synchronized intermittent mandatory ventilation (SIMV), pressure support ventilation (PSV), SIMV + PSV, pressure-controlled ventilation (PCV), pressure-regulated volume control (PRVC), proportional assisted ventilation, mandatory minute ventilation (MMV), bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP). The simulation system demonstrates in a graph and animation the airway pressure, flow, and volume of the respiratory system during mechanical ventilation both with and without spontaneous breathing. Conclusions. We developed a web application that demonstrated the respiratory mechanics and the basic theory of ventilation mode. Regulation as a barrier to electronic commerce in Europe: the case of the European fund management industry This paper presents results of exploratory research into the question of whether the distribution of investment funds via the Internet in Europe is being deterred by regulatory barriers. The paper examines the theoretical underpinnings behind financial services regulation and then asks if current regulation in place within the European Union and its Member States is consistent with this theory or indeed if regulation is acting as a barrier. Using both primary data and secondary sources, this exploratory study argues that European fund management firms face different regulatory obstacles, often the result of protectionism and the inconsistent application of financial regulations, in different EU countries. As a result, they are unable to reap the benefits that electronic commerce should bring in an industry that appears highly suited for it. Combining experts for anchorperson shot detection in news videos Automatic classification of shots extracted by news videos plays an important role in the context of news video segmentation, which is an essential step towards effective indexing of broadcasters’ digital databases. In spite of the efforts reported by the researchers involved in this field, no techniques providing fully satisfactory performance have been presented until now. In this paper, we propose a multi-expert approach for unsupervised shot classification. The proposed multi-expert system (MES) combines three algorithms that are model-free and do not require a specific training phase. In order to assess the performance of the MES, we built up a database significantly wider than those typically used in the field. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach both in terms of shot classification and of news story detection capability. Service value networks: Value, performance and strategy for the services industry Services may be investigated from many perspectives. They encapsulate over 65% of global business, yet many gaps in the services knowledge base exist — particularly from areas including information technology, operational, customer targeting, and services provision. This research investigates an emerging and truly disruptive business scenario — the service value network, from a marketing, an operations and services approach. The service value network is defined as the flexible, dynamic, delivery of a service, or product, by a business’s coordinated value chains (supply chains and demand chains working in harmony), such that a value-adding, specific, service solution is effectively, and efficiently, delivered to the individual customer.The ‘physical and virtual service value network customer — business encounter model’ is developed. Impediments to the development of a service value networks are investigated. Eight key areas related to website customer encounters are offered as investigation areas. The customer ‘touch-points’ across the virtual service encounter offers a raft of new research possibilities and possible new pathways to competitive advantage. Approaches to measure service network encounter effectors are explained. Current and future areas of business research are described. This paper frames the research agenda for service value networks. Thresholds: Workflow Oriented Network Management: A Web/Java Approach  The pathobiology of eosinophilic gastroenteritis of childhood: Is it really the eosinophil, allergic mediated, or something else? Over the past decade clinicians have witnessed a dramatic rise in the prevalence of eosinophilic gastrointestinal diseases. Diverse symptoms, a broad range of endoscopic findings, and varying histopathologic features pose several questions: Do eosinophils represent an allergic response? What mechanisms drive eosinophils to specific mucosal targets? How do eosinophils affect the gastrointestinal tissues? Recent clinical and basic studies are investigating the pathogenesis of eosinophilic gastrointestinal diseases. This review highlights the literature concerning the mechanisms that govern these diseases, with a specific focus on diseases of gastrointestinal columnar epithelia (eosinophilic gastroenteritis and eosinophilic colitis). The roles of specific chemokines, such as eotaxin, and the data supporting the involvement of eosinophil granule proteins in disease states, are discussed. e-Business  Two- and three-dimensional gravity modeling along western continental margin and intraplate Narmada-Tapti rifts: Its relevance to Deccan flood basalt volcanism The western continental margin and the intraplate Narmada-Tapti rifts are primarily covered by Deccan flood basalts. Three-dimensional gravity modeling of +70mgal Bouguer gravity highs extending in the north-south direction along the western continental margin rift indicates the presence of a subsurface high density, mafic-ultramafic type, elongated, roughly ellipsoidal body. It is approximately 12.0 ±1.2 km thick with its upper surface at an approximate depth of 6.0 ±0.6 km, and its average density is {dy2935} kg/m3. Calculated dimension of the high density body in the upper crust is 300 ±30 km in length and 25 ±2.5 to 40 ±4 km in width. Three-dimensional gravity modeling of +10mgal to -30mgal Bouguer gravity highs along the intraplate Narmada-Tapti rift indicates the presence of eight small isolated high density mafic bodies with an average density of {dy2961} kg/m3. These mafic bodies are convex upward and their top surface is estimated at an average depth of 6.5 ±0.6 (between 6 and 8km). These isolated mafic bodies have an average length of 23.8 ±2.4km and width of 15.9 ±1.5km. Estimated average thickness of these mafic bodies is 12.4±1.2km. The difference in shape, length and width of these high density mafic bodies along the western continental margin and the intraplate Narmada-Tapti rifts suggests that the migration and concentration of high density magma in the upper lithosphere was much more dominant along the western continental margin rift. Based on the three-dimensional gravity modeling, it is conjectured that the emplacement of large, ellipsoidal high density mafic bodies along the western continental margin and small, isolated mafic bodies along the Narmada-Tapti rift are related to lineament-reactivation and subsequent rifting due to interaction of hot mantle plume with the lithospheric weaknesses (lineaments) along the path of Indian plate motion over the Réunion hotspot. Mafic bodies formed in the upper lithosphere as magma chambers along the western continental margin and the intraplate Narmada-Tapti rifts at estimated depths between 6 and 8 km from the surface (consistent with geological, petrological and geochemical models) appear to be the major reservoirs for Deccan flood basalt volcanism at approximately 65 Ma. The Development of MML (Medical Markup Language) Version 3.0 as a Medical Document Exchange Format for HL7 Messages Medical Markup Language (MML), as a set of standards, has been developed over the last 8 years to allow the exchange of medical data between different medical information providers. MML Version 2.21 used XML as a metalanguage and was announced in 1999. In 2001, MML was updated to Version 2.3, which contained 12 modules. The latest version—Version 3.0—is based on the HL7 Clinical Document Architecture (CDA). During the development of this new version, the structure of MML Version 2.3 was analyzed, subdivided into several categories, and redefined so the information defined in MML could be described in HL7 CDA Level One. As a result of this development, it has become possible to exchange MML Version 3.0 medical documents via HL7 messages. Issues and Strategies for Studying Latino Student Dropout at the Local Level Latino student dropout is a national concern that must also be addressed strategically in local communities. Although national studies are important for pointing out areas of concern, local studies can provide more specific information for local policy development and implementation. This paper presents an example of local community-initiated needs assessment that addresses issues of Latino access to education. Focus groups and interviews were held with Latino students, parents, and community leaders as well as teachers and administrators. Issues and strategies of the needs assessment process are presented, which include involving key stakeholders, engaging community members as research partners, and engaging school personnel. General findings are presented and linked to accomplishments of the needs assessment process, such as increasing community awareness of issues and building commitment to implement strategies identified to reduce Latino student dropout. Data Protection and Data Sharing in Telematics Automotive telematics may be defined as the information-intensive applications enabled for vehicles by a combination of telecommunications and computing technology. Telematics by its nature requires the capture, storage, and exchange of sensor data to obtain remote services. Such data likely include personal, sensitive information, which require proper handling to protect the driver's privacy. Some existing approaches focus on protecting privacy through anonymous interactions or by stopping information flow altogether. We complement these by concentrating instead on giving different stakeholders control over data sharing and use. In this paper, we identify several data protection challenges specifically related to the automotive telematics domain, and propose a general data protection framework to address some of those challenges. The framework enables data aggregation before data is released to service providers, which minimizes the disclosure of privacy sensitive information. We have implemented the core component, the privacy engine, to help users manage their privacy policies and to authorize data requests based on policy matching. The policy manager provides a flexible privacy policy model that allows data subjects to express rich constraint-based policies, including event-based, and spatio-temporal constraints. Thus, the policy engine can decide on a large number of requests without user assistance and causes no interruptions while driving. A performance study indicates that the overhead is stable with an increasing number of data subjects. Legal Protection From Discrimination Based on Sexual Orientation: Findings From Litigation Since 1964 with the enactment of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, the courts have held that although Title VII prohibits discrimination because of sex, sex has been construed to mean gender, but gender and sexual orientation are different. Traditionally sexual discrimination has been interpreted to protect women in male/female encounters. Thus protection for homosexuals based on sexual orientation has not been covered. However, there are some interesting aspects to the concept of discrimination due to sexual orientation, including defining same-sex harassment as being harassment, equal opportunity harassment, and sexual stereotypes. In addition, how homosexuals may be protected under state laws, unions, company policy, and the constitution is discussed as well as protection for public sector employees. An analysis of 98 litigated cases alleging discrimination based on same sex or sexual orientation harassment led to the development of a logit model predicting future case outcomes based on case characteristics. These are type of harassment, physical contact, type of employees, and whether there was equal opportunity harassment. Implications from the study are that the issues of protection from discrimination are complex and one cannot necessarily assume that this type of discrimination is not protected. Recommendations for more effective managerial actions are provided. A Methodology to Create Legal Ontologies in a Logic Programming Based Web Information Retrieval System Web legal information retrieval systems need the capability to reason with the knowledge modeled by legal ontologies. Using this knowledge it is possible to represent and to make inferences about the semantic content of legal documents. In this paper a methodology for applying NLP techniques to automatically create a legal ontology is proposed. The ontology is defined in the OWL semantic web language and it is used in a logic programming framework, EVOLP+ISCO, to allow users to query the semantic content of the documents. ISCO allows an easy and efficient integration of declarative, object-oriented and constraint-based programming techniques with the capability to create connections with external databases. EVOLP is a dynamic logic programming framework allowing the definition of rules for actions and events. An application of the proposed methodology to the legal web information retrieval system of the Portuguese Attorney General’s Office is described. Towards a Financial Fraud Ontology: A Legal Modelling Approach This document discusses the status of research on detection and prevention of financial fraud undertaken as part of the IST European Commission funded FF POIROT (Financial Fraud Prevention Oriented Information Resources Using Ontology Technology) project. A first task has been the specification of the user requirements that define the functionality of the financial fraud ontology to be designed by the FF POIROT partners. It is claimed here that modeling fraudulent activity involves a mixture of law and facts as well as inferences about facts present, facts presumed or facts missing. The purpose of this paper is to explain this abstract model and to specify the set of user requirements. On building location aware applications using an open platform based on the NEXUS Augmented World Model How should the World Wide Web look like if it were for location-based information? And how would mobile, spatially aware applications deal with such a platform? In this paper we present the neXus Augmented World Model, an object oriented data model which plays a major role in an open framework for both providers of location-based information and new kinds of applications: the neXus platform. We illustrate the usability of the model with several sample applications and show the extensibility of this framework. At last we present a stepwise approach for building spatially aware applications in this environment.  A framework for web-based product data management using J2EE Because eManufacturing is motivated by the emerging need for distant collaborative design required among R&D centres and manufacturers of global-based enterprises, web-based product data management becomes an essential tool for realising the technology. In this paper, the design of a web-basedproductdatamanagement (WPDM) system is presented. The developed WPDM is aimed at achieving the goal of eManufacturing by providing an effective tool for product database management through the Internet utilising JAVA and J2EE technologies. In our scenarios, all the involved engineering and management team members who need WPDM are inherently located dispersedly. The ultimate goal is to optimise product cycle time and upgrade a traditional PDM system to face the challenge of the new era of global business competition. Basically, the proposed WPDM is developed in such a way that it allows designers/users to create, view and manipulate product data through the World Wide Web, while founding the architecture of the web application on a three-tier client/server system. The current WPDM of our design mainly uses servlets and JSP to handle user inputs and manage and retrieve product data from the database through the JDBC driver, with the server components stored on a middleware program called Tomcat. Within this environment, all parties involved in product design and manufacture can access the WPDM log-in page with the given URL after a successful identity authorisation. Consequently, these users can create, search and/or manipulate the desired engineering data through the enabled WPDM. The WPDM developed in this work has been experimentally tested in the lab.  Women, Trauma, and HIV: An Overview  Quantification of isomeric equilibria formed by metal ion complexes of 8-[2-(phosphonomethoxy)ethyl]-8-azaadenine (8,8aPMEA) and 9-[2-(phosphonomethoxy)ethyl]-8-azaadenine (9,8aPMEA). Derivatives of the antiviral nucleotide analogue 9-[2-(phosphonomethoxy)ethyl]adenine (PMEA) The acidity constants of the two-fold protonated acyclic 9-[2-(phosphonomethoxy)ethyl]-8-azaadenine, H2(9,8aPMEA)±, and its 8-isomer, 8-[2-(phosphonomethoxy)ethyl]-8-azaadenine, H2(8,8aPMEA)±, both abbreviated as H2(PA)±, as well as the stability constants of their M(H;PA)+ and M(PA) complexes with the metal ions M2+=Mg2+, Ca2+, Sr2+, Ba2+, Mn2+, Co2+, Ni2+, Cu2+, Zn2+ or Cd2+, have been determined by potentiometric pH titrations in aqueous solution at I=0.1 M (NaNO3) and 25 °C. Application of previously determined straight-line plots of log % MathType!Translator!2!1!AMS LaTeX.tdl!TeX -- AMS-LaTeX! <![CDATA[% MathType!MTEF!2!1!+- % feaafeart1ev1aaatCvAUfeBSn0BKvguHDwzZbqefeKCPfgBGuLBPn % 2BKvginnfarmWu51MyVXgatuuDJXwAK1uy0HwmaeHbfv3ySLgzG0uy % 0Hgip5wzaebbnrfifHhDYfgasaacH8qrps0lbbf9q8WrFfeuY-Hhbb % f9v8qqaqFr0xc9pk0xbba9q8WqFfea0-yr0RYxir-Jbba9q8aq0-yq % -He9q8qqQ8frFve9Fve9Ff0dmeaabaqaciGacaGaaeqabaWaaeWaea % aakeaacaWGlbWaa0baaSqaaiaab2eacaqGOaGaaeOuaiaab2cacaqG % qbGaae4taWWaaSbaaeaacaqGZaaabeaaliaabMcaaeaacaqGnbaaaa % aa!4164! $$ K_{{\text{M(R-PO}}_{\text{3}} {\text{)}}}^{\text{M}} $$ versus % MathType!Translator!2!1!AMS LaTeX.tdl!TeX -- AMS-LaTeX! <![CDATA[% MathType!MTEF!2!1!+- % feaafeart1ev1aaatCvAUfeBSn0BKvguHDwzZbqefeKCPfgBGuLBPn % 2BKvginnfarmWu51MyVXgatuuDJXwAK1uy0HwmaeHbfv3ySLgzG0uy % 0Hgip5wzaebbnrfifHhDYfgasaacH8qrps0lbbf9q8WrFfeuY-Hhbb % f9v8qqaqFr0xc9pk0xbba9q8WqFfea0-yr0RYxir-Jbba9q8aq0-yq % -He9q8qqQ8frFve9Fve9Ff0dmeaabaqaciGacaGaaeqabaWaaeWaea % aakeaacaqGWbGaam4samaaDaaaleaacaqGibGaaeikaiaabkfacaqG % TaGaaeiuaiaab+eammaaBaaabaGaae4maaqabaWccaqGPaaabaGaae % isaaaaaaa!424D! $$ {\text{p}}K_{{\text{H(R-PO}}_{\text{3}} {\text{)}}}^{\text{H}} $$ for simple phosph(on)ate ligands, % MathType!Translator!2!1!AMS LaTeX.tdl!TeX -- AMS-LaTeX! <![CDATA[% MathType!MTEF!2!1!+- % feaafeart1ev1aaatCvAUfeBSn0BKvguHDwzZbqefeKCPfgBGuLBPn % 2BKvginnfarmWu51MyVXgatuuDJXwAK1uy0HwmaeHbfv3ySLgzG0uy % 0Hgip5wzaebbnrfifHhDYfgasaacH8qrps0lbbf9q8WrFfeuY-Hhbb % f9v8qqaqFr0xc9pk0xbba9q8WqFfea0-yr0RYxir-Jbba9q8aq0-yq % -He9q8qqQ8frFve9Fve9Ff0dmeaabaqaciGacaGaaeqabaWaaeWaea % aakeaacaqGsbGaaeylaiaabcfacaqGpbWaa0baaSqaaiaaiodaaeaa % caaIYaGaeyOeI0caaaaa!3F15! $$ {\text{R-PO}}_3^{2-} $$, where R represents a residue without an affinity for metal ions, proves that for all M(PA) complexes a larger stability is observed than is expected for a sole phosphonate coordination of the metal ion. This increased stability is attributed to the formation of five-membered chelates involving the ether oxygen present in the aliphatic residue (% MathType!Translator!2!1!AMS LaTeX.tdl!TeX -- AMS-LaTeX! <![CDATA[% MathType!MTEF!2!1!+- % feaafeart1ev1aaatCvAUfeBSn0BKvguHDwzZbqefeKCPfgBGuLBPn % 2BKvginnfarmWu51MyVXgatuuDJXwAK1uy0HwmaeHbfv3ySLgzG0uy % 0Hgip5wzaebbnrfifHhDYfgasaacH8qrps0lbbf9q8WrFfeuY-Hhbb % f9v8qqaqFr0xc9pk0xbba9q8WqFfea0-yr0RYxir-Jbba9q8aq0-yq % -He9q8qqQ8frFve9Fve9Ff0dmeaabaqaciGacaGaaeqabaWaaeWaea % aakeaacaqGTaGaae4qaiaabIeadaWgaaWcbaGaaeOmaaqabaGccaqG % TaGaae4taiaab2cacaqGdbGaaeisamaaBaaaleaacaqGYaaabeaaki % aab2cacaqGqbGaae4tamaaDaaaleaacaqGZaaabaGaaeOmaiabgkHi % Taaaaaa!460C! $$ {\text{-CH}}_{\text{2}} {\text{-O-CH}}_{\text{2}} {\text{-PO}}_{\text{3}}^{{\text{2}}-} $$) of the ligands. The formation degrees of these chelates were calculated; they vary between about 13% for Ca(8,8aPMEA) and 71% for Cu(8,8aPMEA). The adenine residue has no influence on complex stability except in the Cu(9,8aPMEA) and Zn(9,8aPMEA) systems, where an additional stability increase attributable to the adenine residue is observed and equilibria between four different isomers exist. This means (1) an open isomer with a sole phosphonate coordination, M(PA)op, where PA2−=9,8aPMEA2−, (2) an isomer with a five-membered chelate involving the ether oxygen, M(PA)cl/O, (3) an isomer which contains five- and seven-membered chelates formed by coordination of the phosphonate group, the ether oxygen and the N3 site of the adenine residue, M(PA)cl/O/N3, and finally (4) a macrochelated isomer involving N7, M(PA)cl/N7. For Cu(9,8aPMEA) the formation degrees are 15, 30, 48 and 7% for Cu(PA)op, Cu(PA)cl/O, Cu(PA)cl/O/N3 and Cu(PA)cl/N7, respectively; this proves that the macrochelate involving N7 is a minority species. The situation for the Cu(PMEA) system, where PMEA2− represents the parent compound, i.e. the dianion of 9-[2-(phosphonomethoxy)ethyl]adenine, is quite similar. The relationship between the antiviral activity of acyclic nucleoside phosphonates and the structures of the various complexes is discussed and an explanation is offered why 9,8aPMEA is biologically active but 8,8aPMEA is not. Grid-Computing Computing“, ein Mitte der 90er-Jahre eingeführter Begriff [1,2], bezeichnet eine Architektur für verteilte Systeme, die auf dem World Wide Web aufbaut und die Web-Vision erweitert. Mit dem Grid-Computing werden die Ressourcen einer Gemeinschaft, einer so genannten „virtuellen Organisation“, integriert. Die Hoffnung ist, dass hierdurch rechen- und/oder datenintensiven Aufgaben, die eine einzelne Organisation nicht lösen kann, handhabbar werden. Ein „Grid“ bezeichnet eine nach dem Grid-Computing-Ansatz aufgebaute Rechner-, Netzwerk- und Software-Infrastruktur zur Teilung von Ressourcen mit dem Ziel, die Aufgaben einer virtuellen Organisation zu erledigen. The viable systems model applied to a smart network: the case of the UK electricity market We investigate the concept of Smart Business Networks by using Beer's Viable System Model (VSM) to analyse how such a network mitigates the affect of emergent, and therefore unforecastable, demands upon the networked businesses. We examine the requirements for network smartness, highlight some significant properties of one Smart Network and use our case analysis and concepts from systems theory to suggest some general properties such as natural stability and distributed capability. We have found that smartness is distributed and shared behavioural process standards can act to stabilise complex systems. This is important because it mitigates emergent behaviour within increasingly complex business networks. The contributions of our article apply both to academics and business practitioners and are in its illustration and investigation of one Smart Business Network including how the smart capability functions at a strategic, business process and technical level; and the use of Beer's VSM to analyse an electricity market. Dissemination of information to General Practitioners: a questionnaire survey BackgroundEarly identification of permanent hearing impairment in children enables appropriate intervention which reduces adverse developmental outcomes. The UK Government has introduced a universal hearing screening programme for neonates. All involved health professionals, including those in Primary Care, need to be aware of the service to enable them to offer appropriate support to their patients. A programme of information dissemination within Primary Care was therefore undertaken. The aim of the current study was to determine the extent to which the information had reached General Practitioners (GPs), the GPs' preferred mode of dissemination and the sources from which GPs accessed informationMethodsPostal questionnaire survey of a randomised sample of 1000 GPs in the Phase I pilot sites of the Neonatal Hearing Screening Programme (NHSP).ResultsResponses were received from 54.2% of the sample. Just under 50% of those responding had received information, 62.2% of respondents said they would like to receive more information and the preferred methods of dissemination were the written word and web-sites to allow access when needed. Few GPs perceive themselves to have a core role in the delivery of the NHSP and thence a need for knowledge in the subject. Many are keen to delegate detail to a third party, usually the health visitor, who has traditionally had responsibility for hearing screening.ConclusionsDissemination efforts for service developments of relevance to GPs should concentrate on advertising a website address via brief but memorable posted literature and/or articles in relevant journals and magazines. The website should be GP-friendly, and have a dedicated area for GPs including information of specific relevance and downloadable information sheets. Integrating partonomic hierarchies in anatomy ontologies BackgroundAnatomy ontologies play an increasingly important role in developing integrated bioinformatics applications. One of the primary relationships between anatomical tissues represented in such ontologies is part-of. As there are a number of ways to divide up the anatomical structure of an organism, each may be represented by more than one valid partonomic (part-of) hierarchy. This raises the issue of how to represent and integrate multiple such hierarchies.ResultsIn this paper we describe a solution that is based on our work on an anatomy ontology for mouse embryo development, which is part of the Edinburgh Mouse Atlas Project (EMAP). The paper describes the basic conceptual aspects of our approach and discusses strengths and limitations of the proposed solution. A prototype was implemented in Prolog for evaluation purposes.ConclusionWith the proposed name set approach, rather than having to standardise hierarchies, it is sufficient to agree on a suitable set of basic tissue terms and their meaning in order to facilitate the integration of multiple partonomic hierarchies. Discriminative topological features reveal biological network mechanisms BackgroundRecent genomic and bioinformatic advances have motivated the development of numerous network models intending to describe graphs of biological, technological, and sociological origin. In most cases the success of a model has been evaluated by how well it reproduces a few key features of the real-world data, such as degree distributions, mean geodesic lengths, and clustering coefficients. Often pairs of models can reproduce these features with indistinguishable fidelity despite being generated by vastly different mechanisms. In such cases, these few target features are insufficient to distinguish which of the different models best describes real world networks of interest; moreover, it is not clear a priori that any of the presently-existing algorithms for network generation offers a predictive description of the networks inspiring them.ResultsWe present a method to assess systematically which of a set of proposed network generation algorithms gives the most accurate description of a given biological network. To derive discriminative classifiers, we construct a mapping from the set of all graphs to a high-dimensional (in principle infinite-dimensional) "word space". This map defines an input space for classification schemes which allow us to state unambiguously which models are most descriptive of a given network of interest. Our training sets include networks generated from 17 models either drawn from the literature or introduced in this work. We show that different duplication-mutation schemes best describe the E. coli genetic network, the S. cerevisiae protein interaction network, and the C. elegans neuronal network, out of a set of network models including a linear preferential attachment model and a small-world model.ConclusionsOur method is a first step towards systematizing network models and assessing their predictability, and we anticipate its usefulness for a number of communities. The bag or the spindle: the cell factory at the time of systems' biology Genome programs changed our view of bacteria as cell factories, by making them amenable to systematic rational improvement. As a first step, isolated genes (including those of the metagenome), or small gene clusters are improved and expressed in a variety of hosts. New techniques derived from functional genomics (transcriptome, proteome and metabolome studies) now allow users to shift from this single-gene approach to a more integrated view of the cell, where it is more and more considered as a factory. One can expect in the near future that bacteria will be entirely reprogrammed, and perhaps even created de novo from bits and pieces, to constitute man-made cell factories. This will require exploration of the landscape made of neighbourhoods of all the genes in the cell. Present work is already paving the way for that futuristic view of bacteria in industry. Using internet assessment tools for health and physical education instruction onsPhysical education should provide opportunities for students to participate in activities that promote fitness and well-being. Implementing best practices into the physical education curriculum can contribute to the understanding and application of a healthy lifestyle for students. Technology applied in the physical education curriculum can provide an opportunity for improved instruction and enhanced student learning in physical education. The current study showed that students not only enjoyed working with computer technology but also preferred this interactive instructional method to a lecture method of instruction. The use of technology within the physical education program seemed to motivate students to engage with the material presented.After completing the web-based activities, students also seemed to be aware of their eating and physical activity habits and the changes that they needed to make in their lifestyles. They also expressed positive attitudes toward the use of technology in their physical education class. This study supports Cradler’s (1992) observation that outcomes will be positive when the effective physical educator uses the appropriate technology with sound pedagogical strategies and applicable content in their curriculum. A Parallel Hybrid Web Document Clustering Algorithm and its Performance Study Clustering web document is an important procedure in many web information retrieval systems. As the size of the Internet grows rapidly and the amount of information requests increases exponentially, the use of parallel computing techniques in large scale web document retrieval is unavoidable. We propose a parallel hybrid web document clustering algorithm, which combines the Principal Direction Divisive Partitioning (PDDP) algorithm with the K-means algorithm. Computational experiments were conducted to test the performance of the hybrid algorithm using three real life web document datasets, and the results were compared with that of the parallel PDDP algorithm and the parallel K-means algorithm. The experiments show that the quality of the clustering solutions obtained from the hybrid algorithm is better than that from the parallel PDDP or the parallel K-means. The parallel run time of the hybrid algorithm is similar to and sometimes less than that of the widely used K-means algorithm. A graph-theoretical model of computer security We describe a model of computer security that applies results from the statistical properties of graphs to human-computer systems. The model attempts to determine a safe threshold of interconnectivity in a human-computer system by ad hoc network analyses. The results can be applied to physical networks, social networks and networks of clues in a forensic analysis. Access control, intrusions and social engineering can also be discussed as graph- and information-theoretical relationships. Groups of users and shared objects, such as files or conversations, provide communication channels for the spread of both authorized and unauthorized information. We present numerical criteria for measuring the security of such systems and algorithms for finding the vulnerable points. 