Application of the Lifshitz Theory to the Calculation of Van der Waals Forces across Thin Lipid Films THEORIES of colloids1, biological cell interaction2 and thin film stability require an understanding of the role of Van der Waals dispersion forces. Calculating these attractive forces in condensed media has so far been a problem, but we now report a simple method which makes it possible to predict attractive energies and to investigate the forces in biological processes. Steel Industry: Computer on the March  Application of Walsh Functions to Transform Spectroscopy THIS article suggests that Walsh functions1–3 might be used in transform Spectroscopy4–6 to replace the sinusoidal functions appearing in the Fourier transform. We think this might be the case because Walsh functions are a complete orthonormal set, and therefore give rise to an integral transform of Fourier type; and they take only the values + 1 and − 1 and are therefore likely to be well suited to the binary digital computer. A system for automated chromosome analysis  new method for automated chromosome analysis is presented. This makes use of both a pen reader and trained observer, and allows a more flexible approach than hitherto. A heuristic approach to algorithms intended for the solution of the timetable-problem art I outlines the principles of the collision strategy also useful for the solution of very general job-shop scheduling problems. Part II gives a general flow-chart of the used program Part III discusses the construction of critical matrices. Within those matrices the collision algorithm is tested. The discussed strategies allow solutions with a probability of about 10−75. Improved strategies were sucessful applied to test examples with probabilities smaller than 10−400. Par IV presents an outlock on further improvements.ZusammenfassungTeil I der vorliegenden Arbeit beschreibt die Kollisionsindexstrategie, die sich zur Lösung allgemeiner Ordinierungsaufgaben insbesondere zur Lösung des Stundenplanproblems sowie des Maschinenbelegungsproblems eignet. Teil II gibt ein allgemeines Flußdiagramm. Tei III erläutert die Konstruktion kritischer Matrizen, die zum Test der Leistungsfähigkeit von Lösungsalgorithmen notwendig sind. Das Kollisionsindexverfahren gestattet es, Lösungen aufzufinden, die eine statistische Lösungswahrscheinlichkeit kleimer als 10−75 haben. Verbesserte Verfahren dieser Art haben sich noch an Problemen mit einer Lösungswahrscheinlichkeit kleiner als 10−400 als erfolgreich erwiesen. Teil IV bringt einen Ausblick auf weitere Verbesserungen. The role of the computer in school mathematics  The relevance of modern fields of applied mathematics for mathematical education  A method for classification and regionalization based on areal association  Beitrag zur Rationalisierung eines dendrochronologischen Verfahrens und zur Analyse seiner Aussagesicherheit fassungDas in Mitteleuropa eingesetzte jahrringchronologische Datierungsverfahren wurde im Hinblick auf Rationalisierung und Aussagesicherheit geprüft. Als zeitliche Engpässe erwiesen sich die Probenentnahme, die Jahrringbreitenmessung, das Zeichnen der Zuwachskurven und vor allem der manuelle Kurvenvergleich. Durch Einsatz einer elektronischen Rechenanlage und anderer Hilfsmittel konnte der Ablauf beschleunigt werden.Für eine sichere Synchronisierung von Jahrringfolgen wurde der dafür gewählte Gleichläufigkeitswert, untersucht. Obwohl sich der Streubereich dieses Wertes bei synchroner und unsynchroner Deckungslage weitgehend überschneidet, gestattet der Gleichläufigkeitswert dennoch eine objektive Differenzierung, an Hand derer visuell eine sichere Altersbestimmung möglich ist.Ein Gleichläufigkeitswert resultiert aus den klimatisch geprägten, gleichsinnig verlaufenden Zuwachsschwankungen (Weiserjahre) und aus den zufällig sich deckenden Kurvenabschnitten. Die Werte beider Komponenten streuen. Erst wenn sich Werte au den beiden positiven Streufeldern summieren, liegt der daraus resultierende Gleichläufigkeitswert außerhalb der Zufallsstreuung.Zur Demonstration des modifizierten dendrochronologischen Verfahrens wurden einige Datierungsbeispiele angeführt.SummaryThe dendrochronological dating method as used in Central-Europe has been analyzed with regards to accuracy and possibilities of rationalization. The drawing of samples, measurement of width of tree-rings, plotting of growth diagrams, and above all, the manual identification of tree-ring series has to be regarded as time-consuming. The use of a computer and other automated auxiliary apparatus enabled a speeding up of the dendrochronological process.The “Gleichläufigkeitswert” (coefficient of parallel variation),— as used for exact synchronization of tree-ring series— was investigated. Although the variation of this value overlaps to some extent in synchronous and in asynchronous position, it nevertheless permits an objective pre-classification by means of which an exact determination of age can be visually performed afterwards.The “Gleichläufigkeitswert” results from climatically determined, parallel-oriented increment fluctuations (Weiserjahre) and also from sections of growth diagrams which are congruent by chance. The values of both components vary. Only when the values of both positive variations are adding up the resulting “Gleichläufigkeitswert” will exceed the random variation.Examples of dating are given to demonstrate the modified dendrochronological method. On a modification of the Clenshaw-Curtis quadrature formula In this paper we discuss a modification of the Clenshaw-Curtis quadrature formula. It is shown that for integrals, where the integrand may be expanded in a sufficiently rapid convergent Chebyshev series, we may split the sequence of calculated approximations into two sequences, one which approximates the integral from above and one which approximates it from below. Thus, at any step during the calculation we obtain both upper and lower bounds for the true value of the integral. Erfahrungen beim Einsatz eines Computers zur Stundenplanerstellung fassungDas Aufstellen von Stundenplänen ist eine zeitraubende und fehleranfällige Arbeit. Seit einigen Jahren wird untersucht, wieweit Computer hierbei verwendet werden können. Verschiedene praktische Ergebnisse wurden bereits erzielt, doch bereitet es immer noch Schwierigkeiten, mit dem Computer einen Stundenplan zu bekommen, der in der Schule auchverwendet werden kann. Daß trotz dieser Schwierigkeiten heute schon ein sinnvoller Einsatz des Computers beim Erstellen von Schulstundenplänen möglich ist, zeigt diese Arbeit. Sie berichtet von einem Programm für allgemeine Stundenplanprobleme und dessen Anwendung beim Aufstellen des Stundenplans für eine Schule in Süddeutschland, mit dem diese im Schuljahr 1968/69 uterrichtet.SummaryThe construction of timetables is a long and arduous task with may possibilities for errors, and use of digital computers to do this work has been studied for some years. Some practical success already has been achieved. However, it is still difficult to obtain computer producted timetables which can beused in schools. Nevertheless a practical use of the computer for generating school timetables is possible today. This is shown by the present paper, giving details of a programm for scheduling problems and its application to the construction of a timetable for a german school. This timetable is in use during the academic year 1968–1969. Mean Response Times in Accessing a Time-Sharing Computer In a time-sharing computer system a queueing problem arose whose solution could not be found easily using classical queueing techniques. The assumption of an exponential distribution for the time between arriving messages has enabled a theory to be constructed to find the average response times for customers. Since the system modelled is a simple interrogation service the analysis and results should be of general use. In particular the distributions of service times required by the customers can be quite general. Difference properties for Banach-valued functions  The focal mechanisms in Iran and their relations to tectonics ata from focal mechanism solutions obtained by different authors and those of 8 fault-plane solutions found in this study have been used to search for the distribution of the main stress axes in Iran. For this purpose, the area has been divided into three regions as southern, central and northern Iran. The results indicate that the characteristics of the motion at the foci are different in each of the three regions. — By examining the B axes in south Iranian earthquakes, direction of tectonic motion has been obtained as N 66°E. Since the maximum and intermediate stress axes are nearly horizontal, it is concluded that focal movements in this region are of reverse fault type. Thus, there is a similarity between recent crustal movements and those occurring during Alpine orogeny which is in the form of an overthrusting to the southwest. — In central Iran earthquakes however, tension is predominant, and, therefore, in this region faultings are dip-slip normal or strike-slip, and the horizontal components of displacements are dextral. The mean direction of maximum tension axes is nearly perpendicular to the central Iranian complexes. — It is deduced from north Iranian shocks that, in this region, the earthquakes studied are of nearly almost pressural type, and horizontal components of the oblique displacements in foci are sinistral. A note on top-down deterministic languages In recent years attempts have been made to characterize those languages to which deterministic top-down analysis is applicable. This note examines the relationships between the various classes of grammars that are known to this author. The spectrum of U.S. 40  Computer Simulation Models  Cluster analysis of occurrence and distribution of insect species in a portion of the Potomac River imnological surveys of a portion of the Potomac River were made from 1956 to 1965 to determine the effects of operation of the PEPCO Dickerson Power Station on the aquatic biota. Samples were collected at three stations on each of four high-water and six-low-water surveys. Cluster analyses were made of various combinations of Jaccard coefficients relating 50 aggregations of 370 insect species.Similarities of aggregations of species with a survey were in all cases greater than similarities among aggregations from different surveys, indicating relatively strong within-year or along-stream environmental influences. Clusters of aggregations from middle-year survey show a greater similarity to each other than to the earlier or later surveys. This may indicate environmental change at all stations, including the control. The marked dissimilarity of aggregations from the last survey to all others suggests biotic change in the river. One explanation is that increased urbanization upstream from the power station after 1956 caused some environmental change. No changes in aquatic biota can be attributed to thermal loading as a direct result of operation of the electric power generating station.The clustering method used provides a convenient quantitative analysis of limnological survey data and a comparison of environmental information derived from the study of distribution and ocurrence of different groups or organisms. The significance of this is that similarities and differences between communities can be expressed numerically and similar communities will cluster. If the control station clusters with the stations receiving heated waste water this indicates that no significant biological changes were caused by the waste heat.ZusammenfassungUm festzustellen ob die Lebensgemeinschaften des Potomacflusses irgendwie beeinfluβt oder durch thermischer höhte Abwassern vom PEPCO Dickerson Power Station geändert wurde, wurden mehrere limnologische Untersuchungen (1956–1965) im Fluβ durchgeführt.Proben wurden 10 Male von 3 Stationen entnommen (4 Male-Hochwasser, 6 Male-Niedrigwasser). Verschiedene Jaccard “Coefficient Cluster Analyses” wurden geprüft in Beziehung auf 50 Ansammlungen von 370 Arten von Insecten.Ansammlungen innerhalb einzelnen Untersuchungen waren ähnlicher als diejenigen zwischen verschiedenen Untersuchungen. Das zeigt starke Beeinflüsung von Umweltfaktoren in einzelnen Jahren oder in einzelnen Strom-Orten.Ansammlung-Klumpen von den mitteljährigen Untersuchungen älnelt sich mehr als die Früh-oder Spätjährigen. Das könnte auf Umweltsänderungen (alle Stationen) hinweisen. Die letzte Untersuchung war ganz verschieden; wohl ein Zeichen von biotischer Änderung. Die Ursache dafür könnte sich wohl als eine Folge der stromaufwärts des Untersuchungsgebietes neuzeitlichen Verstädterung. Keine von den festgestellten biotischen Änderungen sind auf den thermisch-erhöhten Abwässern des PEPCO elektrizitätswerk zurückzuführen.Diese Klump-Methode wird eine Beihilfe sein um Ähnichkeiten und Verschiedenheiten zwischen Lebensgemeinschaften mathematisch auszudrücken. Ähnlichen Gemeinschaften werden klumpen.Wenn die “Kontrolle” Biota und die “Abwasser” Biota klumpen, können wir vermuten daβ es sich um keinen bedeutsamen biotischen Veränderungen handelt; ferner, daβ die erhöhte Abwasser-Temperature keine bedeustame Wirkung auf die Biota veranstaltete. Studies on the visual evoked response: III. Strabismus amblyopia and hysterical amblyopia .The foveal visual evoked response is diminished or absent in strabismic amblyopia. This confirms the early report of van Balen & Henkes.2.There is no such finding in hysterical amblyopia.3.On the basis of the work of Hubel & Wiesel in experimental animals this confirms the idea that strabismic amblyopia corresponds to an anatomical defect and hysterical amblyopia does not.4.Practical applications of these findings are suggested.Résumé1.La réponse corticale évoquée à partir de la fovéa est diminuée ou absente dans l'amblyopie strabique. L'observation antérieure de van Balen & Henkes est ainsi confirmée.2.Dans l'amblyopie hystérique rien de pareil ne se produit.3.Sur la base des travaux expérimentaux de Hubel & Wiesel on peut maintenant considérer l'amblyopie strabique comme étant due à une lésion anatornique. Ceci n'est pas le cas pour l'amblyopie hystérique.4.On envisage l'application pratique de ces constatations.Zusammenfassung1.Die von der Fovea aus hervorgerufene kortikale Antwort ist in der Schielamblyopie herabgesetzt oder ganz abwesend. Die frühere Beobachtung von van Balen & Henkes ist somit bestätigt.2.In der Hysterie-Amblyopie findet sich nichts derartiges.3.Auf der Grundlage der experimentellen Arbeiten von Hubel & Wiesel kann jetzt die Schielamblyopie als die Folge eines anatomischen Defekts angesehen werden. Dies ist bei der Hysterie-Amblyopie nicht der Fall.4.Die praktische Anwendung dieser Befunde ist vorgesehen. Lattice representation of general algebraic dependence  Economic potential and its application for a regional growth model with the investment plan of transportation facilities  A study of the strength of discs with blades made in the form of conical casings  A spectroanalytic instrument with an electronic computer  An algorithm for solving linear algebraic equations using residue arithmetic II Part I contained an algorithm for solvingAx=b using single-modulus residue arithmetic. Part II contains a description of the algorithm when more than one modulus is used. There is a discussion of how to select the moduli along with some numerical results. There is a sketch of this procedure in Newman [1]. However, the treatment here is complete and uses the notation of Szabó and Tanaka [2]. It lays the foundation for a subsequent paper which will extend these results. Maximin sequential-like machines and chains  Decision problems forω-automata  A note on complete closure algebras  Statistical analysis of some volcanologic data regarded as series of point events he case histories of some active volcanoes in various parts of the world are analyzed from the standpoint of their being observations of point events in a time continuum. The eruptive histories of the three Japanese volcanoes included show trend in the rate of occurrence of outbreaks. The possible existence of trend in rate of occurrence of events was found for certain Lower Cretaceous bentonites of Wyoming. The data investigated for Etna derive from a period of persistent activity and here also trend in the rate of occurrence of ejections could be identified. The remaining volcanoes studied do not display significant trend in the rate of occurence of outbreaks over the time interval available. Various statistical tests indicate, that although some of the non-trend volcanoes may be fairly closely approximated as regards rate of occurrence of eruptions by the plausible Poisson model, none agree in all respects with the requirements of this process. The patterns of activity of volcanoes found to differ greatly from the Poisson model are complicated kinds of point processes, but owing to the shortness of the series available and their rather unsatisfactory accuracy, it is not possible to be explicit as to their precise nature. In order to elucidate some aspects of the analysis, a simulated series of outbreaks with exponentially distributed intervals between events was produced. The general scheme of analysis adopted has been firstly to test for trend; if trend in the rate of occurrence of events does not occur, the series have been tested for dependence. If there is no dependence between events, tests for agreement with a Poisson model have been carried out, with a negative conclusion leading to a test for agreement with some kind of renewal process. In order to provide a comparison with another type of natural phenomenon of a random nature, the earthquakes occurring in Fennoscandia over the period 1891 to 1950 were analyzed by the same methods. Perhaps surprisingly, the 322 shocks registered during this time (shocks≧3.0 on the Gutenberg-Richter scale) show an indication of trend with a tendency for a decrease in the rate of occurrence of shocks. The eruption pattern of Mauna Loa is thought to be approximately a simple Poisson process. The patterns for Semeru, Bromo and Peak of Ternate seem to be reasonably consistent with a renewal process model, but appear to differ from a Poisson process. The Indonesian volcanoes have several features in common, among these a high coefficient of variation for the times between eruptions. It is tentatively suggested that this may be of some genetic significance. It is possible, that the Indonesian volcanoes erupt in accordance with a pattern approximating to some kind of stationary point process. A new explicit three-level difference scheme for the solution of the heat flow equation A new explicit three-level difference scheme for the numerical solution of the heat flow equation is proposed. The main features of the new scheme are: i) it is unconditionally stable, ii) it is very highly accurate from the point of view of the truncation error, and iii) its solution converges to the solution of the heat equation even if the time and the distance increments tend to zero independently. Quasi-dynamical systems  Overall similarity and DNA base composition of someAcinetobacter strains Six namedAcinetobacter anitratus and 23 namedA. lwoffii strains, most of them isolated in Hungary, were numerically analyzed. A set of 56 selected, distinctive features was used. All features giving an identical response were omitted. There are three interrelated groups. One group contains all of theA. anitratus and one of theA. lwoffii strains; it is largely glucidolytic and nearly all strains have 42.5±0-5 % GC. The second group consists ofA. lwoffii strains with % GC values below 43. The third and largest group containsA. lwoffii strains with % GC between 44.5 and 47. There are no sharp boundaries between the three groups. The interpretation of variation in north-European dwarf-shrub heath communities warf-shrub heaths occur throughout a wide habitat-range in W. Europe, in both montane and lowland areas, through portions of the zones of two major forest types. Correspondingly, marked variations in the floristic composition of heath communities are evident. Identification of numerous “directions of variations” contributes to an assessment of the influence of the environmental factors concerned.1.One approach to the study of variation is by means of classification. There is general agreement regarding the basic phytosociological grouping of N.W. European heath stands, but different treatments have been proposed for the arrangement of these units in hierarchies.2.Stand data classified by the “method of successive approximation” resulted in groups conforming to the associations recognised by theBraun-Blanquet system. However, statistical classification (normal association analysis) produced comparable groups only when dwarf-shrub species alone were considered. An analysis using the whole flora first separated (a) herb-rich stands, (b) lichen rich stands, (c) dune heaths. Additional information derived from a classification using “geographical guiding species” is discussed.3.For further information on variation in composition, techniques of ordination of stands are considered. An ordination of histograms showing cover contribution by dwarf-shrubs resulted in a network of relationships, the strands of which represent variation along important climatic gradients. Principal components analysis of the same data and ordination of the results, byKershaw (1967), confirmed the lack of discrete association of stands, and identified three axes of variation: (i) a north-south trend, (ii) an oceanic-continental trend, and (iii) an edaphic trend, from relatively wet to dry. Ordination of stand data from restricted sampling areas singled out edaphic gradients for special attention.4.Consideration of the relationships between British health communities and those of the Continent shows that environmental gradients identified on the Continent are repeated under much more oceanic conditions in the British Isles. Different combinations of species result, and some British communities are not directly comparable with Continental types. Intensive management of British heaths by burning and grazing has superimposed a further direction of variation towards floristic impoverishment and the monoculture ofCalluna.ZusammenfassungZwergstrauchheiden kommen weitläufig in Westeuropa unter verschiedensten Bedingungen vor, in Berg- und Tieflandgebieten, in Zonenteilen von zwei Hauptwaldtypen. Demgemäß sind distinkte Variationen im floristischen Aufbau der Heidegesellschaften ersichtlich. Identifikation der zahlreichen „Variationsrichtungen“ trägt zu der Beurteilung des Einflusses besonderer Standortsbedingungen bei.1.Einer der Wege des Studiums der Variationen ist durch Klassifikation. Im allgemeinen besteht Übereinstimmung über die phytosoziologische Gruppierung der nordwesteuropäischen Heiden, aber für die Anordnung dieser Einheiten in Rangordnungen wurden verschiedene Methoden vorgeschlagen.2.Bestandsdata, die durch die „Methode der sukzessiven Approximation“ klassifiziert wurden, ergaben Gruppen, die sich nach den Assoziationen richteten, welche imBraun-Blanquet System anerkannt sind. Statistische Klassifikation „Normal Association Analysis“ ergab nur vergleichbare Gruppen, wenn die Zwergstraucharten allein im Betracht gezogen wurden. Eine Analyse aller Arten teilte sie erst in (a) kräuterreiche Bestände, (b) flechtenreiche Bestände und (c) Dünenheiden. Weitere Information, abgeleitet von einer Klassifikation, welche die „geographische Leitart“ benützt, wird behandelt.3.Für zusätzliche Auskunft über die Verschiedenheit im Aufbau werden Techniken der „Ordination“ betrachtet. Eine Anordnung von Histogrammen, die den Deckungsbeitrag von Zwergsträuchern zeigt, ergab ein Netzwerk von Zusammenhängen, dessen Elemente die Variation der wichtigen klimatischen Gradienten darstellen. Eine statistische Analyse „Principal Components Analysis“ derselben Data und Ergebnisanordnung, durchKershaw (1967), bestätigt die Abwesenheit von getrennten Bestandassoziationen und identifiziert drei Variationsachsen: (1) eine Nord-Süd Tendenz (2) eine ozeanisch-kontinentale Tendenz und (3) eine Bodenfeuchtigkeitsrichtung. Anordnung der Bestanddata von begrenzten Probegebieten sondert die Trends in Bodenbedingungen zu besonderer Betrachtung ab.4.Betrachtungen des Verwandtschaftsverhältnisses zwischen britischen und kontinentalen Heiden zeigt, daß auf dem Kontinent identifizierte Umgebungsgradienten sich unter viel ozeanischeren Bedingungen in den britischen Inseln wiederholen. Es ergehen sich verschiedene Artenkombinationen; einige britische Gesellschaften können nicht direkt mit kontinentalen Typen verglichen werden. Intensive Bewirtschaftung von britischen Heiden durch Abbrennen und Abgrasen hat eine weitere Variationsrichtung hinzugefügt, die zur floristischen Verarmung und Alleinkultur vonCalluna hinführt. Endomorphisms and automorphisms of the shift dynamical system  Book Reviews  Weight diagrams for lie group representations: A computer implementation of Freudenthal's algorithm in ALGOL and FORTRAN Implementations in FORTRAN and ALGOL of the Dynkin and Freudenthal algorithms for computing weight systems and for determining the multiplicities of the weights for irreducible representations of simple Lie algebras are described. Reasonable computing times are found for algebras of rank less than or equal to 8 and for representations of dimension less than 1000. Kinetic models of hemopoietic stem cell populations ecent techniques enabled a series of quantitative studies to be made with various aspects of the stem cell functions. Results from several laboratories appear to agree on certain main points: the existence of a pluripotential stem cell in the small rodent, capable of forming visible colonies of hemopoietic foci in the spleen and the existence of some undifferentiated but committed precursor cells from which the differentiating and maturing cell populations originate. There is evidence that the primary stem cell is in a low turnover state in the normal animal, although on demand it is capable of fast and prolonged proliferative activity. The committed undifferentiated precursor cells differ greatly, depending on which cell line they represent. Some of these are in high turnover state in the normal animal (e.g., erythropoietin-responsive cells), others do not appear to be capable of proliferation (e.g., focus forming cells). Perturbation of the steady states by irradiation of the animal, or by treatment with cytotoxic drugs results in recovery patterns which yield valuable kinetic information. Location of errors with a post-stimulus indicator To examine why Averbach & Coriell (1961), in their experiment on short-term visual storage, found a "W* shaped error distribution over positions, their experiment was replicated, using as stimuli arrays of one row of eight letters, each followed by an indicator delayed from 0 to 3,200 msec informing S which of the eight letters to report. Further, on half of the 2,560 trials, parentheses were drawn around the array to simulate an equivalent amount of metacontrast for the end letters as for all of the others. The “W” shape was replicated with and without parentheses, although adding parentheses substantially reduced the accuracy of Positions 1 and 8, leaving the others virtually unaffected. No interaction was found between delay and position, nor did any change in the properties of visual or auditory confusion among the errors occur over positions, delays, or parentheses. The results all suggest that the “W” function is due strictly to better acuity for the middle items near fixation and less metacontrast for the end items. No hint was found that the pattern of errors might be due to processes related to encoding or to memory-maintenance variables. Retrospective anticipation  Editorial  Investigation of the initial condensation stage of cloud formation in the chamber he experimental results on the initial condensation stage simulating droplet spectrum formation in the 3200 m3 volume chamber are presented. In the chamber the air was cooled at the velocities corresponding to those of the upstreamuz≈15–120 cm/s. From the measurements of condensation nuclei-supersaturation spectra and the droplet concentrationN of the developing fog at givenuz maximum supersaturation valuesδmax, which do not exceed 1·10−3 atuz≈15 cm/s and 6·10−3 atuz≈100 cm/s, are estimated. The experimental valuesN andδmax are compared with the computed ones on the basis of regular condensation theory at the initial stage of cloud formation, when the droplet diffusion growth is considered. Experimental valuesN andδmax appeared to be greater than the computed ones. The experimentally obtained dependencesN (uz) andδmaxN (uz) are approximated satisfactorily by degree functions, but exponents proved to be greater than it follows from the known theoretical presentations.анномачуuив статБе описБьвается методика и приводятся резулБтатБь зкспериментов ио моделированию началБной конденсационной стадии формирования обначното спектр¶ в камере обБемом 3200 м3. Охнаждение возцуха в камере проводилосБ со скоростями, соответствуюшими скоростями восходяшего потокаuz≈15–120 см/сек. Из измерений спектров ядер конденсации по пересБьщениям и измерений концентрацнн ядер формирющегося туманаN при задаииБьхuz оцененБь уеличинБьх пересБьщенийδmax, которБье не превБпбают. 10−3 бриuz≈15 см/сек и 6·10−3 приuz≈100 см/сек.ЭксперименталБно найденнБье значенияNδmax сравненБь с рассчитаннБьми. Дня расчетов испонБзованБь даннбье теории начанБной стадии конденсации в обнаках, учитБьвающей дтффузионнБьй рост капенБ (уравнепие Максвена).ЭкспэриментанБно понученнБье значэнияN иδmax оказалисБ волБшими, чем расчефнБье. НайненнБье зксперименталБно зависимостиN (uz) иδmax (uz) удовлетворитенБно аппроксимируются. степеннБьми функциями, однако, показатели степениuz оказанисБ болБшими, чем зто следует из издестнБьхтеоретпческих представлений Characterization of the oxidase-negative, gram-negative coccobacilli (theAchromobacter-Acinetobacter group) More than 70 morphological, biochemical, and nutritional characters of 291 strains of aerobic, oxidase-negative, gram-negative coccobacilli representing theAchromobacter-Acinetobacter group of bacteria were examined. The subdivision of these bacteria is discussed in terms of glucolytic activity in a modified infusion medium, production of gelatinase, hemolysis of blood agar, growth on SS Agar, and utilization of selected organic compounds as the sole source of carbon and energy. On the basis of these characters the bacteria were divided into three major groups — glucolytic, nonglucolytic, and proteolytic which comprised six less clearly defined minor subgroups. Generic and species names currently applied to these bacteria are listed. A data-acquisition system for the combination gas chromatograph-mass spectrometer  method for fast digital recording of low-resolution mass spectra has been developed. The method has been used for combination gas chromatography — mass spectrometry and allows, inter alia, on-line inspection of the data being recorded. Since the central unit of the acquisition system consists only of a multi-channel analyser, the system costs less than computer-based alternatives.The data recorded and processed can be displayed in a number of ways, usually after semi-automatic back-ground subtraction and normalisation. Interpretable data are then presented as tables or plotted diagrams, and are in computer-compatible form to allow later comparison with library-stored mass spectra.ZusammenfassungEs wurde eine Methode zum schnellen digitalen Aufzeichnen von Massenspektren niedriger Auflösung entwickelt. Die Methode wurde für die Kombination Gas-Chromatographie — Massenspektrometrie verwendet. Sie erlaubt unter anderem eine on-line-Beobachtung der erfaßten Daten. Da die Zentraleinheit des Datenverarbeitungssystems nur aus einem Viel-Kanal-Analysator besteht, kostet das System weniger als andere, die auf einem Prozeßrechner basieren.Die erfaßten und verarbeiteten Daten können auf verschiedene Weise — gewöhnlich aber nach halbautomatischer Untergrundkorrektur und Normierung — dargestellt werden. Interpretierbare Daten werden dann in Form von Tabellen oder von Diagrammen dargestellt; sie sind in einer Form, die den Daten aus einem Prozeßrechner entspricht, so daß ein späterer Vergleich mit gespeicherten Massenspektren möglich ist.SommaireOn a mis au point une méthode pour l'enregistrement digital rapide de spectres de masse à faible résolution. La méthode a été employée pour la combinaison chromatographie en phase gazeuse — spectrométrie de masse. Entre autres, elle permet l'observation «on-line» des données enregistrées. Puisque l'unité centrale du système de traitement de données consiste seulement d'un analyseur multi-canal, le système est moins coûteux que d'autres basés sur l'emploid d'un ordinateur de procédé.Les données enregistrées et traitées peuvent être présentées de façon différente — mais généralement après correction semi-automatique du bruit de fond et standardisation subséquente. Les données qui se prêtent à l'interprétation sont alors présentées sous forme de tables ou de diagrammes; elles ont une forme qui correspond à celle des données fournies par un ordinateur de procédé, de sorte qu'une comparaison avec des spectres de masse déjà existants est rendue possible. Bestandeszuwachs und Leistungsvergleich montan-subalpiner Lärchen-Fichten-Mischbestände  Cluster analysis of potomac river survey stations based on protozoan presence-absence data Four high-water and six low-water limnological surveys of a portion of the Potomac River were made from 1956 to 1965; samples were collected at three stations on each survey to determine the effects of operation of the PEPCO Dickerson Power Station on the aquatic biota. Cluster analyses were made of various combinations of Jaccard coefficients relating 46 aggregations of 647 protozoan species.Similarities of aggregations of species within a survey were nearly always greater than similarities among aggregations from different surveys, indicating linear or along-stream environmental influences. Within-survey similarities for the early and late surveys were usually higher than similarities within middle-year surveys, a possible indication of environmental change at all stations, including the control, and subsequent biotic readjustment. Clustering of the 1956 aggregations, taken under high-water conditions before plant operations began, with aggregations from other surveys for any one station indicate that 1956 may have been different from other survey years. One explanation is that increased urbanization upstream from the power station after 1956 caused some environmental change. No changes in aquatic biota could be attributed to thermal pollution as a direct result of operation of the electric power generating station. A basic course on compiler principles An attempt to devise a methodology of compiler design is described, and an outline is given for a possible course on this subject. The theoretical basis is formed by the concepts of phrase-structure language, finite-state- and stack-acceptor, and transducer. As their extension capable of processing context-dependent elements of languages, a so-called Table-Transducer is postulated, and it serves as the core-algorithm upon which compilers are based. The developed theory and method of compiler construction is applied to an example of a simple programming language. Acid Dissolution of Chlorites: Release of Magnesium, Iron and Aluminum and Mode of Acid Attack The acid dissolution of 8 chlorites in 2N Si-saturated HCl showed that there was no preferential dissolution of Al in octahedral positions and that the octahedral and tetrahedral sheets in the chlorite structure were equally attacked. An analysis of chemical data suggested a simple two-dimensional diffusion model in which the acid attack on the chlorite particles proceeded from the edges inward leaving a reacted layer which formed a diffusion barrier. Microscopic examination showed, however, that the acid attack was not simply an edge attack but started at any point where cracks, structural defects and weaknesses apparently predisposed sites to acid attack. It was also clear from the formation of etch figures and solution channels that the product layer at least partially dissolved or disintegrated during the progress of acid attack. The residue which remained after acid attack appeared to be an opaline amorphous hydrated silica as was indicated by index of refraction measurements. The orderly arrangement of etch figures on flakes of some chlorites reflected certain crystal symmetry elements. The results indicate that the acid dissolution technique to determine the ratio of Al in octahedral and tetrahedral positions can not be used as an aid in the calculation of structural formulae for chlorites.RésuméLa dissolution acide de 8 chlorites dans 2N Si-saturé HCl a montré qu’il n’y avait pas de dissolution préférentielle de Al dans les positions octahédriques et que les plaques octahédriques et tétrahédriques dans la structure de chlorite étaient également attaquées. Une analyse des données chimiques a permis de suggérer un simple modèle de diffusion tridimensionnelle dans lequel l’attaque de l’acide sur les particules de chlorite procédait des bords vers l’intérieur, laissant une couche ayant subie la réaction et formant une barrière de diffusion. L’examen microscopique a montré, toutefois, que l’attaque de l’acide n’était pas seulement une attaque au bord mais commençait en n’importe quel point où des craques, des défauts de structure ou des faiblesses prédisposaient apparemment les zones à l’attaque de l’acide. D’aprés la formation des figures gravées et des cannaux de solution, il était aussi clair que la couche de produit se dissolvait ou se désintégrait au moins partiellement au cours de l’attaque de l’acide. Le résidu qui restait après l’attaque acide était une silice opaline hydratée amorphe comme l’indiquait l’index des mesures de réfraction. L’arrangement régule des figures gravées sur les éclats de quelques chlorites reflétait certains éléments symétriques de cristaux. Les résultats indiquent que la technique de dissolution à l’acide pour déterminer le taux de Al dans les positions octahédriques et tétrahédriques ne peut être utilisé pour venir en aide au calcul des formules structurelles pour les chlorites.KurzreferatDie saure Lösung von 8 Chloriten in 2N Si-gesättigter HCl zeigte, dass eine bevorzugte Lösung von Al in oktaedrischen Stellungen nicht stattfand, und dass die oktaedrischen und tetraedrischen Schichten im Chloritgefüge gleich stark angegriffen wurden. Eine Analyse der chemischen Messwerte deutete auf ein einfache zweidimensionales Diffusionsmodell hin, in welchem der Säureangriff auf die Chloritteilchen von den Rändern aus einwärts erfolgte, unter Zurücklassung einer ausreagierten Schicht, die eine Diffusionsbarriere bildete. Mittels mikroskopischer Prüfung konnte aber gezeift werden, dass der Säureangriff nicht bloss ein Randangriff war, sondern dass scheinbar Risse, Gefügefehler und sonstige schwache Stellen als bevorzugte Punkte für den Säureangriff angesehen werden müssen. Ferner ging klar aus Ätzfiguren und Lösungskanälen hervor, dass im Laufe des Säureangriffs die Produktschicht sich zum mindesten teilweise löste und zerfiel. Der nach dem Säureangriff zurückbleibende Rückstand erschien, wie durch Messungen des Brechungsindex gezeigt werden konnte, als eine opalartige, amorphe, hydratisierte Silika. Die regelmässige Anordnung der Atzfiguren auf den Blättchen gewisser Chlorite deutet auf Kristallsymmetrieelemente hin. Die Ergebnisse zeigen an, dass die Methode der Auflösung in Säure zur Bestimmung des Verhältnisses von Al in oktaedrischen und tetraedrischen Stellungen als Hilfsmittel bei der Berechnung von Strukturformeln von Chloriten ungeeignet ist.РезюмеИзучение процесса кислотного растворения 8-ми хлоритов в 2N Si-насыщенной НСl показало, что при растворении отсутствует преимущественное вымывание Аl из октаэдрических положений и что октаэдрические и тетраэдрические сетки хлоритовой структуры в равной степени подвергаются действию кислоты. Анализ химических данных позволил предположить простую двумерную диффузионную модель, при которой действие кислоты на хлорит начинается с краев частиц и в дальнейшем распространяется внутрь, что приводит к образованию поверхностного реакционного слоя, представляющего собой диффузионный барьер.Однако, исследования под микроскопом показали, что кислота неравномерно воздействует на края частиц; действие кислоты начинается преимущественно с тех точек, где имеют место трещинки, структурные дефекты и другие нарушения, которые создают благоприятные условия для кислотного воздействия. Из анализа образующихся фигур травления и каналов растворения совершенно ясно следует также, что реакционный слой, по крайней мере частично, растворяется или разрушается под действием кислоты. Остаток, который получается после обработки кислотой, представляет собой, как было установлено измерением показателя преломления, опаловый аморфный гидратированный кремнезем. Упорядоченное располежение фигур травления на чешуйках некоторых хлоритов отражает определенные элементы симметрии кристаллов. Полученные результаты указывают на то, что метод кислотного травления, применяемый с целью определения относительного количества Аl в октаэдрических и тетраэдрических положениях, не может быть использован для вычисления структурных формул хлоритов. The development of investigations in thermoelasticity, thermoplasticity, and thermoviscoelasticity  Two and three dipoles approximating the earth's main magnetic field wo and three dipoles approximating the earth's main magnetic field are determined minimizing a sum of squares of differences between the dipole fields and the earth's magnetic field. Numerical results have been obtained by the aid of a digital computer for epochs 1932, 1942, 1950 and 1960. Nucleon-nucleon potential for isotopic triplet state The nucleon-nucleon potential for the isotopic triplet state is computed as a superposition of Yukawa-type potentials. It contains the central, spin, spin-orbit, quadratic spin-orbit and tensor term and is dependent on the total angular momentumJ. The parameters of the individual terms are fitted to the experimental data. A special case of Vavilov-Čerenkov radiation The problem of Vavilov-Cerenkov radiation in an electrically biaxial crystal if a charge moves in the direction of one of the axes of the tensor of the dielectric constant is solved. In the notation, the equations for the Vavilov-Cerenkov cones, the direction radiation densities in the various cones, their sum, and the total radiation are determined. The dependences are discussed in great detail.In the computations, “untraditional” use has been made of a computer for the modification of algebraic expressions.