Organization-wide adoption of computerized provider order entry systems: a study based on diffusion of innovations theory BackgroundComputerized provider order entry (CPOE) systems have been introduced to reduce medication errors, increase safety, improve work-flow efficiency, and increase medical service quality at the moment of prescription. Making the impact of CPOE systems more observable may facilitate their adoption by users. We set out to examine factors associated with the adoption of a CPOE system for inter-organizational and intra-organizational care.MethodsThe diffusion of innovation theory was used to understand physicians' and nurses' attitudes and thoughts about implementation and use of the CPOE system. Two online survey questionnaires were distributed to all physicians and nurses using a CPOE system in county-wide healthcare organizations. The number of complete questionnaires analyzed was 134 from 200 nurses (67.0%) and 176 from 741 physicians (23.8%). Data were analyzed using descriptive-analytical statistical methods.ResultsMore nurses (56.7%) than physicians (31.3%) stated that the CPOE system introduction had worked well in their clinical setting (P < 0.001). Similarly, more physicians (73.9%) than nurses (50.7%) reported that they found the system not adapted to their specific professional practice (P = < 0.001). Also more physicians (25.0%) than nurses (13.4%) stated that they did want to return to the previous system (P = 0.041). We found that in particular the received relative advantages of the CPOE system were estimated to be significantly (P < 0.001) higher among nurses (39.6%) than physicians (16.5%). However, physicians' agreements with the compatibility of the CPOE and with its complexity were significantly higher than the nurses (P < 0.001).ConclusionsQualifications for CPOE adoption as defined by three attributes of diffusion of innovation theory were not satisfied in the study setting. CPOE systems are introduced as a response to the present limitations in paper-based systems. In consequence, user expectations are often high on their relative advantages as well as on a low level of complexity. Building CPOE systems therefore requires designs that can provide rather important additional advantages, e.g. by preventing prescription errors and ultimately improving patient safety and safety of clinical work. The decision-making process leading to the implementation and use of CPOE systems in healthcare therefore has to be improved. As any change in health service settings usually faces resistance, we emphasize that CPOE system designers and healthcare decision-makers should continually collect users' feedback about the systems, while not forgetting that it also is necessary to inform the users about the potential benefits involved. The effectiveness of physical activity monitoring and distance counselling in an occupational health setting - a research protocol for a randomised controlled trial (CoAct) BackgroundThe CoAct (Cocreating Activity) study is investigating a novel lifestyle intervention, aimed at the working population, with daily activity monitoring and distance counselling via telephone and secure web messages. The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of lifestyle counselling on the level of physical activity in an occupational health setting. The purposes include also analysing the potential effects of changes in physical activity on productivity at work and sickness absence, and healthcare costs. This article describes the design of the study and the participant flow until and including randomization.Methods/DesignCoAct is a randomised controlled trial with two arms: a control group and intervention group with daily activity monitoring and distance counselling. The intervention focuses on lifestyle modification and takes 12 months. The study population consists of volunteers from 1100 eligible employees of a Finnish insurance company. The primary outcomes of this study are change in physical activity measured in MET minutes per week, work productivity and sickness absence, and healthcare utilisation. Secondary outcomes include various physiological measures. Cost-effectiveness analysis will also be performed. The outcomes will be measured by questionnaires at baseline, after 6, 12, and 24 months, and sickness absence will be obtained from the employer's registers.DiscussionNo trials are yet available that have evaluated the effectiveness of daily physical activity monitoring and distance counselling in an occupational health setting over a 12 month period and no data on cost-effectiveness of such intervention are available.Trial RegistrationClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00994565 AtPIN: Arabidopsis thaliana Protein Interaction Network BackgroundProtein-protein interactions (PPIs) constitute one of the most crucial conditions to sustain life in living organisms. To study PPI in Arabidopsis thaliana we have developed AtPIN, a database and web interface for searching and building interaction networks based on publicly available protein-protein interaction datasets.DescriptionAll interactions were divided into experimentally demonstrated or predicted. The PPIs in the AtPIN database present a cellular compartment classification (C3) which divides the PPI into 4 classes according to its interaction evidence and subcellular localization. It has been shown in the literature that a pair of genuine interacting proteins are generally expected to have a common cellular role and proteins that have common interaction partners have a high chance of sharing a common function. In AtPIN, due to its integrative profile, the reliability index for a reported PPI can be postulated in terms of the proportion of interaction partners that two proteins have in common. For this, we implement the Functional Similarity Weight (FSW) calculation for all first level interactions present in AtPIN database. In order to identify target proteins of cytosolic glutamyl-tRNA synthetase (Cyt-gluRS) (AT5G26710) we combined two approaches, AtPIN search and yeast two-hybrid screening. Interestingly, the proteins glutamine synthetase (AT5G35630), a disease resistance protein (AT3G50950) and a zinc finger protein (AT5G24930), which has been predicted as target proteins for Cyt-gluRS by AtPIN, were also detected in the experimental screening.ConclusionsAtPIN is a friendly and easy-to-use tool that aggregates information on Arabidopsis thaliana PPIs, ontology, and sub-cellular localization, and might be a useful and reliable strategy to map protein-protein interactions in Arabidopsis. AtPIN can be accessed at http://bioinfo.esalq.usp.br/atpin. The influence of coughing on cerebrospinal fluid pressure in an in vitro syringomyelia model with spinal subarachnoid space stenosis BackgroundThe influence of coughing, on the biomechanical environment in the spinal subarachnoid space (SAS) in the presence of a cerebrospinal fluid flow stenosis, is thought to be an important etiological factor in craniospinal disorders, including syringomyelia (SM), Chiari I malformation, and hydrocephalus. The aim of this study was to investigate SAS and syrinx pressures during simulated coughing using in vitro models and to provide information for the understanding of the craniospinal fluid system dynamics to help develop better computational models.MethodsFour in vitro models were constructed to be simplified representations of: 1) non-communicating SM with spinal SAS stenosis; 2) non-communicating SM due to spinal SAS stenosis with a distensible spinal column; 3) non-communicating SM post surgical removal of a spinal SAS stenosis; and 4) a spinal SAS stenosis due to spinal trauma. All of the models had a flexible spinal cord. To simulate coughing conditions, an abrupt CSF pressure pulse (~ 5 ms) was imposed at the caudal end of the spinal SAS by a computer-controlled pump. Pressure measurements were obtained at 4 cm intervals along the spinal SAS and syrinx using catheter tip transducers.ResultsPressure measurements during a simulated cough, showed that removal of the stenosis was a key factor in reducing pressure gradients in the spinal SAS. The presence of a stenosis resulted in a caudocranial pressure drop in the SAS, whereas pressure within the syrinx cavity varied little caudocranially. A stenosis in the SAS caused the syrinx to balloon outward at the rostral end and be compressed at the caudal end. A >90% SAS stenosis did not result in a significant Venturi effect. Increasing compliance of the spinal column reduced forces acting on the spinal cord. The presence of a syrinx in the cord when there was a stenosis in the SAS, reduced pressure forces in the SAS. Longitudinal pressure dissociation acted to suck fluid and tissue caudocranially in the SAS with a stenosis.ConclusionsPressures in the spinal SAS during a simulated cough in vitro had similar peak, transmural, and longitudinal pressures to in vivo measurements reported in the literature. The pressure wave velocities and pressure gradients during coughing (longitudinal pressure dissociation and transmural pressure) were impacted by alterations in geometry, compliance, and the presence of a syrinx and/or stenosis. Multilocus variable-number tandem repeat analysis for molecular typing and phylogenetic analysis of Shigella flexneri BackgroundShigella flexneri is one of the causative agents of shigellosis, a major cause of childhood mortality in developing countries. Multilocus variable-number tandem repeat (VNTR) analysis (MLVA) is a prominent subtyping method to resolve closely related bacterial isolates for investigation of disease outbreaks and provide information for establishing phylogenetic patterns among isolates. The present study aimed to develop an MLVA method for S. flexneri and the VNTR loci identified were tested on 242 S. flexneri isolates to evaluate their variability in various serotypes. The isolates were also analyzed by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) to compare the discriminatory power and to evaluate the usefulness of MLVA as a tool for phylogenetic analysis of S. flexneri.ResultsThirty-six VNTR loci were identified by exploring the repeat sequence loci in genomic sequences of Shigella species and by testing the loci on nine isolates of different subserotypes. The VNTR loci in different serotype groups differed greatly in their variability. The discriminatory power of an MLVA assay based on four most variable VNTR loci was higher, though not significantly, than PFGE for the total isolates, a panel of 2a isolates, which were relatively diverse, and a panel of 4a/Y isolates, which were closely-related. Phylogenetic groupings based on PFGE patterns and MLVA profiles were considerably concordant. The genetic relationships among the isolates were correlated with serotypes. The phylogenetic trees constructed using PFGE patterns and MLVA profiles presented two distinct clusters for the isolates of serotype 3 and one distinct cluster for each of the serotype groups, 1a/1b/NT, 2a/2b/X/NT, 4a/Y, and 6. Isolates that had different serotypes but had closer genetic relatedness than those with the same serotype were observed between serotype Y and subserotype 4a, serotype X and subserotype 2b, subserotype 1a and 1b, and subserotype 3a and 3b.ConclusionsThe 36 VNTR loci identified exhibited considerably different degrees of variability among S. flexneri serotype groups. VNTR locus could be highly variable in a serotype but invariable in others. MLVA assay based on four highly variable loci could display a comparable resolving power to PFGE in discriminating isolates. MLVA is also a prominent molecular tool for phylogenetic analysis of S. flexneri; the resulting data are beneficial to establish clear clonal patterns among different serotype groups and to discern clonal groups among isolates within the same serotype. As highly variable VNTR loci could be serotype-specific, a common MLVA protocol that consists of only a small set of loci, for example four to eight loci, and that provides high resolving power to all S. flexneri serotypes may not be obtainable. Integrative approaches to the prediction of protein functions based on the feature selection BackgroundProtein function prediction has been one of the most important issues in functional genomics. With the current availability of various genomic data sets, many researchers have attempted to develop integration models that combine all available genomic data for protein function prediction. These efforts have resulted in the improvement of prediction quality and the extension of prediction coverage. However, it has also been observed that integrating more data sources does not always increase the prediction quality. Therefore, selecting data sources that highly contribute to the protein function prediction has become an important issue.ResultsWe present systematic feature selection methods that assess the contribution of genome-wide data sets to predict protein functions and then investigate the relationship between genomic data sources and protein functions. In this study, we use ten different genomic data sources in Mus musculus, including: protein-domains, protein-protein interactions, gene expressions, phenotype ontology, phylogenetic profiles and disease data sources to predict protein functions that are labelled with Gene Ontology (GO) terms. We then apply two approaches to feature selection: exhaustive search feature selection using a kernel based logistic regression (KLR), and a kernel based L1-norm regularized logistic regression (KL1LR). In the first approach, we exhaustively measure the contribution of each data set for each function based on its prediction quality. In the second approach, we use the estimated coefficients of features as measures of contribution of data sources. Our results show that the proposed methods improve the prediction quality compared to the full integration of all data sources and other filter-based feature selection methods. We also show that contributing data sources can differ depending on the protein function. Furthermore, we observe that highly contributing data sets can be similar among a group of protein functions that have the same parent in the GO hierarchy.ConclusionsIn contrast to previous integration methods, our approaches not only increase the prediction quality but also gather information about highly contributing data sources for each protein function. This information can help researchers collect relevant data sources for annotating protein functions. Hybrid Methods for Equilibrium Problems and Fixed Points Problems of a Countable Family of Relatively Nonexpansive Mappings in Banach Spaces The purpose of this paper is to introduce hybrid projection algorithms for finding a common element of the set of common fixed points of a countable family of relatively nonexpansive mappings and the set of solutions of an equilibrium problem in the framework of Banach spaces. Moreover, we apply our result to the problem of finding a common element of an equilibrium problem and the problem of finding a zero of a maximal monotone operator. Our result improve and extend the corresponding results announced by Takahashi and Zembayashi (2008 and 2009), and many others. A genomic glimpse of aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases in malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum BackgroundPlasmodium parasites are causative agents of malaria which affects >500 million people and claims ~2 million lives annually. The completion of Plasmodium genome sequencing and availability of PlasmoDB database has provided a platform for systematic study of parasite genome. Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases (aaRS s) are pivotal enzymes for protein translation and other vital cellular processes. We report an extensive analysis of the Plasmodium falciparum genome to identify and classify aaRSs in this organism.ResultsUsing various computational and bioinformatics tools, we have identified 37 aaRS s in P. falciparum. Our key observations are: (i) fraction of proteome dedicated to aaRS s in P. falciparum is very high compared to many other organisms; (ii) 23 out of 37 Pf-aaRS sequences contain signal peptides possibly directing them to different cellular organelles; (iii) expression profiles of Pf-aaRSs vary considerably at various life cycle stages of the parasite; (iv) several PfaaRSs posses very unusual domain architectures; (v) phylogenetic analyses reveal evolutionary relatedness of several parasite aaRS s to bacterial and plants aaRSs; (vi) three dimensional structural modelling has provided insights which could be exploited in inhibitor discovery against parasite aaRSs.ConclusionWe have identified 37 Pf-aaRSs based on our bioinformatics analysis. Our data reveal several unique attributes in this protein family. We have annotated all 37 Pf-aaRSs based on predicted localization, phylogenetics, domain architectures and their overall protein expression profiles. The sets of distinct features elaborated in this work will provide a platform for experimental dissection of this family of enzymes, possibly for the discovery of novel drugs against malaria. Semidefinite Programming for Approximate Maximum Likelihood Sinusoidal Parameter Estimation We study the convex optimization approach for parameter estimation of several sinusoidal models, namely, single complex/real tone, multiple complex sinusoids, and single two-dimensional complex tone, in the presence of additive Gaussian noise. The major difficulty for optimally determining the parameters is that the corresponding maximum likelihood (ML) estimators involve finding the global minimum or maximum of multimodal cost functions because the frequencies are nonlinear in the observed signals. By relaxing the nonconvex ML formulations using semidefinite programs, high-fidelity approximate solutions are obtained in a globally optimum fashion. Computer simulations are included to contrast the estimation performance of the proposed semi-definite relaxation methods with the iterative quadratic maximum likelihood technique as well as Cramér-Rao lower bound. A computational approach to resolve cell level contributions to early glandular epithelial cancer progression BackgroundThree-dimensional (3D) embedded cell cultures provide an appropriate physiological environment to reconstruct features of early glandular epithelial cancer. Although these are orders of magnitude simpler than tissues, they too are complex systems that have proven challenging to understand. We used agent-based, discrete event simulation modeling methods to build working hypotheses of mechanisms of epithelial 3D culture phenotype and early cancer progression. Starting with an earlier software analogue, we validated an improved in silico epithelial analogue (ISEA) for cardinal features of a normally developed MDCK cyst. A set of axiomatic operating principles defined simulated cell actions. We explored selective disruption of individual simulated cell actions. New framework features enabled recording detailed measures of ISEA cell activities and morphology.ResultsEnabled by a small set of cell operating principles, ISEA cells multiplied and self-organized into cyst-like structures that mimicked those of MDCK cells in a 3D embedded cell culture. Selective disruption of "anoikis" or directional cell division caused the ISEA to develop phenotypic features resembling those of in vitro tumor reconstruction models and cancerous tissues in vivo. Disrupting either process, or both, altered cell activity patterns that resulted in morphologically similar outcomes. Increased disruption led to a prolonged presence of intraluminal cells.ConclusionsISEA mechanisms, behaviors, and morphological properties may have biological counterparts. To the extent that in silico-to-in vitro mappings are valid, the results suggest plausible, additional mechanisms of in vitro cancer reconstruction or reversion, and raise potentially significant implications for early cancer diagnosis based on histology. Further ISEA development and use are expected to provide a viable platform to complement in vitro methods for unraveling the mechanistic basis of epithelial morphogenesis and cancer progression. Clinical presentation, demographics and outcome of Tuberculosis (TB) in a low incidence area: a 4-year study in Geneva, Switzerland BackgroundThe incidence of tuberculosis (TB) in developed countries has decreased since the 1990s, reflecting worldwide efforts to identify and treat TB according to WHO recommendations. However TB remains an important public health problem in industrialized countries with a high proportion of cases occurring among subjects originating from high prevalence countries. The aim of this study was to describe clinical and social characteristics of patients with TB and their outcome in a low incidence area with a high immigration rate.MethodsFour-year retrospective study based on a computerized database and subsequent review of medical records of all patients with TB followed at the outpatient section of the Division of Pulmonary Diseases, Geneva University Hospital, Switzerland.Results252 patients (84% foreigners, 25% asylum seekers) aged 38 ± 19 yrs were studied (11% co-infected with HIV). TB was intrapulmonary (TBP) in 158 cases (63%), extrapulmonary (TBE) in 137 (54%), and both in 43 cases (17%). TBP was smear (S)+/culture (C)+ in 59%, S-/C+ in 37%, S-/C- in 4%. Smoking was significantly associated with cavitary disease.Time from onset of symptoms to diagnosis was 2.1 ± 3.1 months. Initially, 10% were asymptomatic; 35% had no general symptoms. Despite systematic sputum analysis (induced or spontaneous), TBP was confirmed only by bronchoscopy in 38 subjects (24% of TBP). Side effects requiring changes in treatment occurred in 38 cases (11%).Treatment was completed in 210 (83%) patients. In 42 cases, follow up was unsuccessful; causes were: failure (n = 2; 0.8%), defaulters (n = 8; 3%), transfer out (n = 28; 11%) and death (n = 4; 1.6%). Relapse rate was 0.24 per 100 patient-years. Considering S+ TBP only, success rate was 87%.ConclusionTB in our area is predominantly a disease of young foreign-born subjects. Smoking appears as a possible risk factor for cavitary TBP. Time to diagnosis remains long. Compliance to treatment is satisfactory. Success rate for S+ TBP is within WHO objectives. Effectiveness of electronic guideline-based implementation systems in ambulatory care settings - a systematic review BackgroundElectronic guideline-based decision support systems have been suggested to successfully deliver the knowledge embedded in clinical practice guidelines. A number of studies have already shown positive findings for decision support systems such as drug-dosing systems and computer-generated reminder systems for preventive care services.MethodsA systematic literature search (1990 to December 2008) of the English literature indexed in the Medline database, Embase, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, and CRD (DARE, HTA and NHS EED databases) was conducted to identify evaluation studies of electronic multi-step guideline implementation systems in ambulatory care settings. Important inclusion criterions were the multidimensionality of the guideline (the guideline needed to consist of several aspects or steps) and real-time interaction with the system during consultation. Clinical decision support systems such as one-time reminders for preventive care for which positive findings were shown in earlier reviews were excluded. Two comparisons were considered: electronic multidimensional guidelines versus usual care (comparison one) and electronic multidimensional guidelines versus other guideline implementation methods (comparison two).ResultsTwenty-seven publications were selected for analysis in this systematic review. Most designs were cluster randomized controlled trials investigating process outcomes more than patient outcomes. With success defined as at least 50% of the outcome variables being significant, none of the studies were successful in improving patient outcomes. Only seven of seventeen studies that investigated process outcomes showed improvements in process of care variables compared with the usual care group (comparison one). No incremental effect of the electronic implementation over the distribution of paper versions of the guideline was found, neither for the patient outcomes nor for the process outcomes (comparison two).ConclusionsThere is little evidence at the moment for the effectiveness of an increasingly used and commercialised instrument such as electronic multidimensional guidelines. After more than a decade of development of numerous electronic systems, research on the most effective implementation strategy for this kind of guideline-based decision support systems is still lacking. This conclusion implies a considerable risk towards inappropriate investments in ineffective implementation interventions and in suboptimal care. An asymmetric approach to preserve common intervals while sorting by reversals BackgroundThe reversal distance and optimal sequences of reversals to transform a genome into another are useful tools to analyse evolutionary scenarios. However, the number of sequences is huge and some additional criteria should be used to obtain a more accurate analysis. One strategy is searching for sequences that respect constraints, such as the common intervals (clusters of co-localised genes). Another approach is to explore the whole space of sorting sequences, eventually grouping them into classes of equivalence. Recently both strategies started to be put together, to restrain the space to the sequences that respect constraints. In particular an algorithm has been proposed to list classes whose sorting sequences do not break the common intervals detected between the two inital genomes A and B. This approach may reduce the space of sequences and is symmetric (the result of the analysis sorting A into B can be obtained from the analysis sorting B into A).ResultsWe propose an alternative approach to restrain the space of sorting sequences, using progressive instead of initial detection of common intervals (the list of common intervals is updated after applying each reversal). This may reduce the space of sequences even more, but is shown to be asymmetric.ConclusionsWe suggest that our method may be more realistic when the relation ancestor-descendant between the analysed genomes is clear and we apply it to do a better characterisation of the evolutionary scenario of the bacterium Rickettsia felis with respect to one of its ancestors. A service-oriented architecture for integrating the modeling and formal verification of genetic regulatory networks BackgroundThe study of biological networks has led to the development of increasingly large and detailed models. Computer tools are essential for the simulation of the dynamical behavior of the networks from the model. However, as the size of the models grows, it becomes infeasible to manually verify the predictions against experimental data or identify interesting features in a large number of simulation traces. Formal verification based on temporal logic and model checking provides promising methods to automate and scale the analysis of the models. However, a framework that tightly integrates modeling and simulation tools with model checkers is currently missing, on both the conceptual and the implementational level.ResultsWe have developed a generic and modular web service, based on a service-oriented architecture, for integrating the modeling and formal verification of genetic regulatory networks. The architecture has been implemented in the context of the qualitative modeling and simulation tool GNA and the model checkers NU SMV and CADP. GNA has been extended with a verification module for the specification and checking of biological properties. The verification module also allows the display and visual inspection of the verification results.ConclusionsThe practical use of the proposed web service is illustrated by means of a scenario involving the analysis of a qualitative model of the carbon starvation response in E. coli. The service-oriented architecture allows modelers to define the model and proceed with the specification and formal verification of the biological properties by means of a unified graphical user interface. This guarantees a transparent access to formal verification technology for modelers of genetic regulatory networks. Computation of magnetic anomalies and gradients for spatial arbitrary posture regular body In the interaction computation for 3D gravity and magnetic anomalies due to arbitrarily shaped homogenous magnetized polyhedron model composed of triangular facets, there are many difficult points, such as mass computing, absence of a mature computer technique in 3D geological body modeling, inconvenient human-computer interaction, hard program coding, etc.. Based on the formulae of the magnetic field due to horizontal regular bodies, and by applying forward theory with the three-dimensional Cartesian coordinate system transformation, the forward problems of magnetic anomalies and gradient tensors for arbitrary slantwise regular bodies were solved. It is shown that the magnetic calculating expressions of the arbitrary posture regular body are corrected by comparing results with the homogeneous polyhedral body model outcome data. Furthermore, in the same condition, the former significantly reduced forward time. Applying a new forward method of regular body expressions in arbitrary posture, developed software for interaction computation between the 3D geological body model and magnetic field has advantages of fast calculation speed, easy manipulation, etc.. Skittle: A 2-Dimensional Genome Visualization Tool BackgroundIt is increasingly evident that there are multiple and overlapping patterns within the genome, and that these patterns contain different types of information - regarding both genome function and genome history. In order to discover additional genomic patterns which may have biological significance, novel strategies are required. To partially address this need, we introduce a new data visualization tool entitled Skittle.ResultsThis program first creates a 2-dimensional nucleotide display by assigning four colors to the four nucleotides, and then text-wraps to a user adjustable width. This nucleotide display is accompanied by a "repeat map" which comprehensively displays all local repeating units, based upon analysis of all possible local alignments. Skittle includes a smooth-zooming interface which allows the user to analyze genomic patterns at any scale.Skittle is especially useful in identifying and analyzing tandem repeats, including repeats not normally detectable by other methods. However, Skittle is also more generally useful for analysis of any genomic data, allowing users to correlate published annotations and observable visual patterns, and allowing for sequence and construct quality control.ConclusionsPreliminary observations using Skittle reveal intriguing genomic patterns not otherwise obvious, including structured variations inside tandem repeats. The striking visual patterns revealed by Skittle appear to be useful for hypothesis development, and have already led the authors to theorize that imperfect tandem repeats could act as information carriers, and may form tertiary structures within the interphase nucleus. Predicting functional upstream open reading frames in Saccharomyces cerevisiae BackgroundSome upstream open reading frames (uORFs) regulate gene expression (i.e., they are functional) and can play key roles in keeping organisms healthy. However, how uORFs are involved in gene regulation is not yet fully understood. In order to get a complete view of how uORFs are involved in gene regulation, it is expected that a large number of experimentally verified functional uORFs are needed. Unfortunately, wet-experiments to verify that uORFs are functional are expensive.ResultsIn this paper, a new computational approach to predicting functional uORFs in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is presented. Our approach is based on inductive logic programming and makes use of a novel combination of knowledge about biological conservation, Gene Ontology annotations and genes' responses to different conditions. Our method results in a set of simple and informative hypotheses with an estimated sensitivity of 76%. The hypotheses predict 301 further genes to have 398 novel functional uORFs. Three (RPC11, TPK1, and FOL1) of these 301 genes have been hypothesised, following wet-experiments, by a related study to have functional uORFs. A comparison with another related study suggests that eleven of the predicted functional uORFs from genes LDB17, HEM3, CIN8, BCK2, PMC1, FAS1, APP1, ACC1, CKA2, SUR1, and ATH1 are strong candidates for wet-lab experimental studies.ConclusionsLearning based prediction of functional uORFs can be done with a high sensitivity. The predictions made in this study can serve as a list of candidates for subsequent wet-lab verification and might help to elucidate the regulatory roles of uORFs. HIV-1 subtype and viral tropism determination for evaluating antiretroviral therapy options: an analysis of archived Kenyan blood samples BackgroundInfection with HIV-1 is characterized by genetic diversity such that specific viral subtypes are predominant in specific geographical areas. The genetic variation in HIV-1 pol and env genes is responsible for rapid development of resistance to current drugs. This variation has influenced disease progression among the infected and necessitated the search for alternative drugs with novel targets. Though successfully used in developed countries, these novel drugs are still limited in resource-poor countries. The aim of this study was to determine HIV-1 subtypes, recombination, dual infections and viral tropism of HIV-1 among Kenyan patients prior to widespread use of antiretroviral drugs.MethodsRemnant blood samples from consenting sexually transmitted infection (STI) patients in Nairobi were collected between February and May 2001 and stored. Polymerase chain reaction and cloning of portions of HIV-1 gag, pol and env genes was carried out followed by automated DNA sequencing.ResultsTwenty HIV-1 positive samples (from 11 females and 9 males) were analyzed. The average age of males (32.5 years) and females (26.5 years) was significantly different (p value < 0.0001). Phylogenetic analysis revealed that 90% (18/20) were concordant HIV-1 subtypes: 12 were subtype A1; 2, A2; 3, D and 1, C. Two samples (10%) were discordant showing different subtypes in the three regions. Of 19 samples checked for co-receptor usage, 14 (73.7%) were chemokine co-receptor 5 (CCR5) variants while three (15.8%) were CXCR4 variants. Two had dual/mixed co-receptor use with X4 variants being minor population.ConclusionHIV-1 subtype A accounted for majority of the infections. Though perceived to be a high risk population, the prevalence of recombination in this sample was low with no dual infections detected. Genotypic co-receptor analysis showed that most patients harbored viruses that are predicted to use CCR5. Dynamic maps: a visual-analytic methodology for exploring spatio-temporal disease patterns BackgroundEpidemiologic studies are often confounded by the human and environmental interactions that are complex and dynamic spatio-temporal processes. Hence, it is difficult to discover nuances in the data and generate pertinent hypotheses. Dynamic mapping, a method to simultaneously visualize temporal and spatial information, was introduced to elucidate such complexities. A conceptual framework for dynamic mapping regarding principles and implementation methods was proposed.MethodsThe spatio-temporal dynamics of Salmonella infections for 2002 in the U.S. elderly were depicted via dynamic mapping. Hospitalization records were obtained from the Centers of Medicare and Medicaid Services. To visualize the spatial relationship, hospitalization rates were computed and superimposed onto maps of environmental exposure factors including livestock densities and ambient temperatures. To visualize the temporal relationship, the resultant maps were composed into a movie.ResultsThe dynamic maps revealed that the Salmonella infections peaked at specific spatio-temporal loci: more clusters were observed in the summer months and higher density of such clusters in the South. The peaks were reached when the average temperatures were greater than 83.4°F (28.6°C). Although the relationship of salmonellosis rates and occurrence of temperature anomalies was non-uniform, a strong synchronization was found between high broiler chicken sales and dense clusters of cases in the summer.ConclusionsDynamic mapping is a practical visual-analytic technique for public health practitioners and has an outstanding potential in providing insights into spatio-temporal processes such as revealing outbreak origins, percolation and travelling waves of the diseases, peak timing of seasonal outbreaks, and persistence of disease clusters. Classification across gene expression microarray studies BackgroundThe increasing number of gene expression microarray studies represents an important resource in biomedical research. As a result, gene expression based diagnosis has entered clinical practice for patient stratification in breast cancer. However, the integration and combined analysis of microarray studies remains still a challenge. We assessed the potential benefit of data integration on the classification accuracy and systematically evaluated the generalization performance of selected methods on four breast cancer studies comprising almost 1000 independent samples. To this end, we introduced an evaluation framework which aims to establish good statistical practice and a graphical way to monitor differences. The classification goal was to correctly predict estrogen receptor status (negative/positive) and histological grade (low/high) of each tumor sample in an independent study which was not used for the training. For the classification we chose support vector machines (SVM), predictive analysis of microarrays (PAM), random forest (RF) and k-top scoring pairs (kTSP). Guided by considerations relevant for classification across studies we developed a generalization of kTSP which we evaluated in addition. Our derived version (DV) aims to improve the robustness of the intrinsic invariance of kTSP with respect to technologies and preprocessing.ResultsFor each individual study the generalization error was benchmarked via complete cross-validation and was found to be similar for all classification methods. The misclassification rates were substantially higher in classification across studies, when each single study was used as an independent test set while all remaining studies were combined for the training of the classifier. However, with increasing number of independent microarray studies used in the training, the overall classification performance improved. DV performed better than the average and showed slightly less variance. In particular, the better predictive results of DV in across platform classification indicate higher robustness of the classifier when trained on single channel data and applied to gene expression ratios.ConclusionsWe present a systematic evaluation of strategies for the integration of independent microarray studies in a classification task. Our findings in across studies classification may guide further research aiming on the construction of more robust and reliable methods for stratification and diagnosis in clinical practice. A harsh climate  Fagerstrom test for nicotine dependence vs heavy smoking index in a general population survey BackgroundThe Fagerström Test for Nicotine Dependence (FTND) is used for assessing nicotine dependence. A shorter test derived from the FTND used for the general population is the Heavy Smoking Index (HSI) (six questions vs. two). The objective of this study is to compare the validity of the HSI versus the FTND.MethodsA survey of tobacco use in the general population was carried out in the northern Spanish region of Galicia using both the FTND and the HSI to study a representative sample of 1655 daily smokers. The HSI was compared with the FTND, considered the gold standard. Measures of sensitivity, specificity and predictive values were calculated. Concordance between the tests was also established (Cohen's kappa).ResultsCohen's kappa showed good agreement between measures (Kappa = 0.7); specificity values were also high (Sp = 96.2%). Sensitivity analysis in females (Se = 62.3%) did not show good agreement.ConclusionsThe HSI can be used as a reasonably good screening test in order to identify daily smokers with high nicotine dependence. Nevertheless, for populations or subpopulations having low nicotine dependence, such as women, the FTND is more reliable. Estimation of depth to salt domes from normalized full gradient of gravity anomaly and examples from the USA and Denmark We present an estimation of depth of anomalous bodies using normalized full gradient (NFG) of gravity anomaly. Maxima in the NFG map can locate the bodies and indicate their depth. Model calculation using a sphere and application of the NFG method to gravity anomalies over salt domes in the USA and Denmark shows effectiveness of the method. However, the accuracy of depth estimation strongly depends on the number of term N in the Fourier series used to calculate the NFG. An optimum N for the calculation can be given from a test. Molekulare Pathologie beim Mammakarzinom fassungDie Analyse der Genexpressionsmuster beim Mammakarzinom hat eine Klassifikation dieser Tumoren in fünf verschiedene molekulare Subtypen (luminal A und B, HER2-Überexpression, basaler Phänotyp und normaler Phänotyp) ermöglicht, die sich durch prognostische und therapeutische Unterschiede auszeichnen. Diese molekulare Klassifikation des Mammakarzinoms kann mit einer begrenzten Zahl immunhistochemischer Marker annäherungsweise reproduziert werden, allerdings gibt es noch keinen Konsens, was die Selektion der Marker und die Schwellenwerte betrifft. Der Einsatz dieser Klassifikation wird in Zukunft helfen, zielgerichtete Therapien mit den tumorbiologisch klar definierten Subgruppen zu korrelieren, und dadurch die Aussagekraft klinischer Studien verbessern. Die verschiedenen molekularen Subtypen gehen aus histologisch unterschiedlichen Vorläuferläsionen und Differenzierungswegen hervor. Zu den Vorläuferläsionen mit geringem Risiko zählen atypische Zylinderepithelveränderungen, atypische duktale Epithelhyperplasien und lobuläre Neoplasien. Diese Läsionen stellen fakultative präkanzeröse Läsionen des niedrigmalignen Mammakarzinoms dar.AbstractThe analysis of gene expression patterns in breast cancer has led to a molecular classification into five different molecular subtypes (luminal A and B, HER2-overexpressing, basal phenotype, and normal phenotype), which are linked to specific prognostic and therapeutic differences. This molecular classification of breast cancer can be approximated immunohistochemically with a limited number of markers. However, there is still no consensus regarding the selection of markers and the thresholds. The use of this molecular classification of breast cancer will help to better direct targeted therapies in the future and to correlate the results of clinical studies with biologically defined subgroups. This will help to improve the quality of clinical trials. The different molecular subtypes arise from different precursor lesions and pathways of differentiation. The low-risk pathway includes atypical columnar cell hyperplasia, atypical ductal hyperplasia, and lobular neoplasia. These lesions are optional low-grade precursor lesions of breast cancer. Polymorphism in the flanking regions of the PbGP43 gene from the human pathogen Paracoccidioides brasiliensis: search for protein binding sequences and poly(A) cleavage sites BackgroundParacoccidioides brasiliensis is a thermo-dimorphic fungus that causes paracoccidiodomycosis (PCM). Glycoprotein gp43 is the fungal main diagnostic antigen, which can also protect against murine PCM and interact with extracellular matrix proteins. It is structurally related to glucanases, however not active, and whose expression varies considerably. We have presently studied polymorphisms in the PbGP43 flanking regions to help understand such variations.Resultswe tested the protein-binding capacity of oligonucleotides covering the PbGP43 proximal 5' flanking region, including overlap and mutated probes. We used electrophoretic mobility shift assays and found DNA binding regions between positions -134 to -103 and -255 to -215. Only mutation at -230, characteristic of P. brasiliensis phylogenetic species PS2, altered binding affinity. Next, we cloned and sequenced the 5' intergenic region up to position -2,047 from P. brasiliensis Pb339 and observed that it is composed of three tandem repetitive regions of about 500 bp preceded upstream by 442 bp. Correspondent PCR fragments of about 2,000 bp were found in eight out of fourteen isolates; in PS2 samples they were 1,500-bp long due to the absence of one repetitive region, as detected in Pb3. We also compared fifty-six PbGP43 3' UTR sequences from ten isolates and have not observed polymorphisms; however we detected two main poly(A) clusters (1,420 to 1,441 and 1,451 to 1,457) of multiple cleavage sites. In a single isolate we found one to seven sites.ConclusionsWe observed that the amount of PbGP43 transcripts accumulated in P. brasiliensis Pb339 grown in defined medium was about 1,000-fold higher than in Pb18 and 120-fold higher than in Pb3. We have described a series of features in the gene flanking regions and differences among isolates, including DNA-binding sequences, which might impact gene regulation. Little is known about regulatory sequences in thermo-dimorphic fungi. The peculiar structure of tandem repetitive fragments in the 5' intergenic region of PbGP43, their characteristic sequences, besides the presence of multiple poly(A) cleavage sites in the 3' UTR will certainly guide future studies. Tyrosine phosphorylation of the N-Methyl-D-Aspartate receptor 2B subunit in spinal cord contributes to remifentanil-induced postoperative hyperalgesia: the preventive effect of ketamine BackgroundExperimental and clinical studies showed that intraoperative infusionof remifentanil has been associated with postoperative hyperalgesia. Previous reports suggested that spinal N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors may contribute to the development and maintenance of opioid-induced hyperalgesia. In the present study, we used a rat model of postoperative pain to investigate the role of tyrosine phosphorylation of NMDA receptor 2B (NR2B) subunit in spinal cord in the postoperative hyperalgesia induced by remifentanil and the intervention of pretreatment with ketamine.ResultsIntraoperative infusion of remifentanil (0.04 mg/kg, subcutaneous) significantly enhanced mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia induced by the plantar incision during the postoperative period (each lasting between 2 h and 48 h), which was attenuated by pretreatment with ketamine (10 mg/kg, subcutaneous). Correlated with the pain behavior changes, immunocytochemical and western blotting experiments in our study revealed that there was a marked increase in NR2B phosphorylation at Tyr1472 in the superficial dorsal horn after intraoperative infusion of remifentanil, which was attenuated by pretreatment with ketamine.ConclusionsThis study provides direct evidence that tyrosine phosphorylation of the NR2B at Tyr1472 in spinal dosal horn contributes to postoperative hyperalgesia induced by remifentanil and supports the potential therapeutic value of ketamine for improving postoperative hyperalgesia induced by remifentanil. Genome-wide loss-of-function analysis of deubiquitylating enzymes for zebrafish development BackgroundDeconjugation of ubiquitin and/or ubiquitin-like modified protein substrates is essential to modulate protein-protein interactions and, thus, signaling processes in cells. Although deubiquitylating (deubiquitinating) enzymes (DUBs) play a key role in this process, however, their function and regulation remain insufficiently understood. The "loss-of-function" phenotype studies can provide important information to elucidate the gene function, and zebrafish is an excellent model for this goal.ResultsFrom an in silico genome-wide search, we found more than 90 putative DUBs encoded in the zebrafish genome belonging to six different subclasses. Out of them, 85 from five classical subclasses have been tested with morpholino (MO) knockdown experiments and 57 of them were found to be important in early development of zebrafish. These DUB morphants resulted in a complex and pleiotropic phenotype that, regardless of gene target, always affected the notochord. Based on the huC neuronal marker expression, we grouped them into five sets (groups I to V). Group I DUBs (otud7b, uchl3 and bap1) appear to be involved in the Notch signaling pathway based on the neuronal hyperplasia, while group IV DUBs (otud4, usp5, usp15 and usp25) play a critical role in dorsoventral patterning through the BMP pathway.ConclusionWe have identified an exhaustive list of genes in the zebrafish genome belonging to the five established classes of DUBs. Additionally, we performed the corresponding MO knockdown experiments in zebrafish as well as functional studies for a subset of the predicted DUB genes. The screen results in this work will stimulate functional follow-up studies of potential DUB genes using the zebrafish model system. Molecular evolution of the hyperthermophilic archaea of the Pyrococcus genus: analysis of adaptation to different environmental conditions BackgroundProkaryotic microorganisms are able to survive and proliferate in severe environmental conditions. The increasing number of complete sequences of prokaryotic genomes has provided the basis for studying the molecular mechanisms of their adaptation at the genomic level. We apply here a computer-based approach to compare the genomes and proteomes from P. furiosus, P. horikoshii, and P. abyssi to identify features of their molecular evolution related to adaptation strategy to diverse environmental conditions.ResultsPhylogenetic analysis of rRNA genes from 26 Pyrococcus strains suggested that the divergence of P. furiosus, P. horikoshii and P. abyssi might have occurred from ancestral deep-sea organisms. It was demonstrated that the function of genes that have been subject to positive Darwinian selection is closely related to abiotic and biotic conditions to which archaea managed to become adapted. Divergence of the P. furiosus archaea might have been due to loss of some genes involved in cell motility or signal transduction, and/or to evolution under positive selection of the genes for translation machinery. In the course of P. horikoshii divergence, positive selection was found to operate mainly on the transcription machinery; divergence of P. abyssi was related with positive selection for the genes mainly involved in inorganic ion transport. Analysis of radical amino acid replacement rate in evolving P. furiosus, P. horikoshii and P. abyssi showed that the fixation rate was higher for radical substitutions relative to the volume of amino acid side-chain.ConclusionsThe current results give due credit to the important role of hydrostatic pressure as a cause of variability in the P. furiosus, P. horikoshii and P. abyssi genomes evolving in different habitats. Nevertheless, adaptation to pressure does not appear to be the sole factor ensuring adaptation to environment. For example, at the stage of the divergence of P. horikoshii and P. abyssi, an essential evolutionary role may be assigned to changes in the trophic chain, namely, acquisition of a consumer status at a high (P. horikoshii) or low level (P. abyssi). Deep RNA sequencing of L. monocytogenes reveals overlapping and extensive stationary phase and sigma B-dependent transcriptomes, including multiple highly transcribed noncoding RNAs BackgroundIdentification of specific genes and gene expression patterns important for bacterial survival, transmission and pathogenesis is critically needed to enable development of more effective pathogen control strategies. The stationary phase stress response transcriptome, including many σB-dependent genes, was defined for the human bacterial pathogen Listeria monocytogenes using RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) with the Illumina Genome Analyzer. Specifically, bacterial transcriptomes were compared between stationary phase cells of L. monocytogenes 10403S and an otherwise isogenic ΔsigB mutant, which does not express the alternative σ factor σB, a major regulator of genes contributing to stress response, including stresses encountered upon entry into stationary phase.ResultsOverall, 83% of all L. monocytogenes genes were transcribed in stationary phase cells; 42% of currently annotated L. monocytogenes genes showed medium to high transcript levels under these conditions. A total of 96 genes had significantly higher transcript levels in 10403S than in ΔsigB, indicating σB-dependent transcription of these genes. RNA-Seq analyses indicate that a total of 67 noncoding RNA molecules (ncRNAs) are transcribed in stationary phase L. monocytogenes, including 7 previously unrecognized putative ncRNAs. Application of a dynamically trained Hidden Markov Model, in combination with RNA-Seq data, identified 65 putative σB promoters upstream of 82 of the 96 σB-dependent genes and upstream of the one σB-dependent ncRNA. The RNA-Seq data also enabled annotation of putative operons as well as visualization of 5'- and 3'-UTR regions.ConclusionsThe results from these studies provide powerful evidence that RNA-Seq data combined with appropriate bioinformatics tools allow quantitative characterization of prokaryotic transcriptomes, thus providing exciting new strategies for exploring transcriptional regulatory networks in bacteria.See minireivew http://jbiol.com/content/8/12/107. Physical activity monitoring in obese people in the real life environment BackgroundObesity is a major problem especially in western countries and several studies underline the importance of physical activity to enhance diet. Currently there is increasing interest in instruments for monitoring daily physical activity. The purpose of this pilot study was to appraise the qualitative and quantitative differences in physical activities and gait analysis parameters in control and obese subjects by means of an innovative tool for the monitoring of physical activity.MethodsTwenty-six obese patients, 16 women and 10 men, aged 22 to 69 years with Body Mass Index (BMI) between 30 and 51.4 kg/m2, were compared with 15 control subjects, 4 men and 11 women, aged 24 to 69 with BMI between 18 and 25 kg/m2 during daily physical activities. The IDEEA device (Minisun, Fresno, CA), based on a wearable system of biaxial accelerometers and able to continuously record the physical activities and energy expenditure of a subject in time was used. Time spent in different physical activities such as standing, sitting, walking, lying, reclining, stepping, energy expenditure and gait parameters (velocity, stance duration, etc) were measured during a 24-hours period.ResultsA trend toward a reduced number of steps was present, associated to reduced speed, reduced cadence and reduced rate of single and double limb support (SLS/DLS). Moreover, obese people spent significant less time stepping, less time lying and more time in a sitting or reclined position during the night. The energy expenditure during a 24-hours period was higher in the obese compared to controls.ConclusionsThe study provided objective parameters to differentiate the daily motor activity of obese subjects with respect to controls, even a larger population is required to confirm these findings. The device used can be of support in programming educational activities for life style modification in obese people as well as for monitoring the results of various kinds of intervention in these patients concerning weight and physical performance. Endothelin receptor antagonist and airway dysfunction in pulmonary arterial hypertension BackgroundIn idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension (IPAH), peripheral airway obstruction is frequent. This is partially attributed to the mediator dysbalance, particularly an excess of endothelin-1 (ET-1), to increased pulmonary vascular and airway tonus and to local inflammation. Bosentan (ET-1 receptor antagonist) improves pulmonary hemodynamics, exercise limitation, and disease severity in IPAH. We hypothesized that bosentan might affect airway obstruction.MethodsIn 32 IPAH-patients (19 female, WHO functional class II (n = 10), III (n = 22); (data presented as mean ± standard deviation) pulmonary vascular resistance (11 ± 5 Wood units), lung function, 6 minute walk test (6-MWT; 364 ± 363.7 (range 179.0-627.0) m), systolic pulmonary artery pressure, sPAP, 79 ± 19 mmHg), and NT-proBNP serum levels (1427 ± 2162.7 (range 59.3-10342.0) ng/L) were measured at baseline, after 3 and 12 months of oral bosentan (125 mg twice per day).Results and DiscussionAt baseline, maximal expiratory flow at 50 and 25% vital capacity were reduced to 65 ± 25 and 45 ± 24% predicted. Total lung capacity was 95.6 ± 12.5% predicted and residual volume was 109 ± 21.4% predicted. During 3 and 12 months of treatment, 6-MWT increased by 32 ± 19 and 53 ± 69 m, respectively; p < 0.01; whereas sPAP decreased by 7 ± 14 and 10 ± 19 mmHg, respectively; p < 0.05. NT-proBNP serum levels tended to be reduced by 123 ± 327 and by 529 ± 1942 ng/L; p = 0.11). There was no difference in expiratory flows or lung volumes during 3 and 12 months.ConclusionThis study gives first evidence in IPAH, that during long-term bosentan, improvement of hemodynamics, functional parameters or serum biomarker occur independently from persisting peripheral airway obstruction. Effects of phone versus mail survey methods on the measurement of health-related quality of life and emotional and behavioural problems in adolescents BackgroundTelephone interviews have become established as an alternative to traditional mail surveys for collecting epidemiological data in public health research. However, the use of telephone and mail surveys raises the question of to what extent the results of different data collection methods deviate from one another. We therefore set out to study possible differences in using telephone and mail survey methods to measure health-related quality of life and emotional and behavioural problems in children and adolescents.MethodsA total of 1700 German children aged 8-18 years and their parents were interviewed randomly either by telephone or by mail. Health-related Quality of Life (HRQoL) and mental health problems (MHP) were assessed using the KINDL-R Quality of Life instrument and the Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ) children's self-report and parent proxy report versions. Mean Differences ("d" effect size) and differences in Cronbach alpha were examined across modes of administration. Pearson correlation between children's and parents' scores was calculated within a multi-trait-multi-method (MTMM) analysis and compared across survey modes using Fisher-Z transformation.ResultsTelephone and mail survey methods resulted in similar completion rates and similar socio-demographic and socio-economic makeups of the samples. Telephone methods resulted in more positive self- and parent proxy reports of children's HRQoL (SMD ≤ 0.27) and MHP (SMD ≤ 0.32) on many scales. For the phone administered KINDL, lower Cronbach alpha values (self/proxy Total: 0.79/0.84) were observed (mail survey self/proxy Total: 0.84/0.87). KINDL MTMM results were weaker for the phone surveys: mono-trait-multi-method mean r = 0.31 (mail: r = 0.45); multi-trait-mono-method mean (self/parents) r = 0.29/0.36 (mail: r = 0.34/0.40); multi-trait-multi-method mean r = 0.14 (mail: r = 0.21). Weaker MTMM results were also observed for the phone administered SDQ: mono-trait-multi-method mean r = 0.32 (mail: r = 0.40); multi-trait-mono-method mean (self/parents) r = 0.24/0.30 (mail: r = 0.20/0.32); multi-trait-multi-method mean r = 0.14 (mail = 0.14). The SDQ classification into borderline and abnormal for some scales was affected by the method (OR = 0.36-1.55).ConclusionsThe observed differences between phone and mail surveys are small but should be regarded as relevant in certain settings. Therefore, while both methods are valid, some changes are necessary. The weaker reliability and MTMM validity associated with phone methods necessitates improved phone adaptations of paper and pencil questionnaires. The effects of phone versus mail survey modes are partly different across constructs/measures. Model-Based Hand Tracking by Chamfer Distance and Adaptive Color Learning Using Particle Filter We propose a new model-based hand tracking method for recovering of three-dimensional hand motion from an image sequence. We first build a three-dimensional hand model using truncated quadrics. The degrees of freedom (DOF) for each joint correspond to the DOF of a real hand. This feature extraction is performed by using the Chamfer Distance function for the edge likelihood. The silhouette likelihood is performed by using a Bayesian classifier and the online adaptation of skin color probabilities. Therefore, it is to effectively deal with any illumination changes. Particle filtering is used to track the hand by predicting the next state of three-dimensional hand model. By using these techniques, this method adds the useful ability of automatic recovery from tracking failures. This method can also be used to track the guitarist's hand. DuD Report  Stolz, Glück, Unvernunft  Buchbesprechung  Formularmäßige Einwilligung  Veranstaltungskalender  Sächsischer Datenschutzbeauftragter unterstützt die Datenschutzbehörde von Bosnien-Herzegowina  DuD Recht  In eigener Sache  Datenschutz bei Kundenkarten fassungVerbesserte Kundenbindung und zielgruppengenaue Werbung, kleine Geschenke, Rabatte und Boni — Kundenkarten versprechen zunächst einmal nur Gutes und Unternehmen werden nicht müde, diese verführerische Seite der Kundenkarten herauszustreichen. Jedoch gibt es auch die andere Seite der Kundenkarte, die datenschutzrechtlich problematische Seite, die im Fokus der folgenden Ausführungen steht. Der Beitrag setzt sich sowohl mit grundsätzlichen Fragen als auch mit diversen datenschutzrechtlichen Einzelproblemen bei Kundenbindungssystemen auseinander. “Task Force” im Kinosaal fassungBisher kannte man sie nur von Spezialkommandos der Polizei oder des Militärs, doch nachdem der Filmverleih Warner Bros. bereits 2004 Nachtsichtgeräte an britische Kinobetreiber verschenkt hatte, um ein Mitschneiden des damals startenden Films „Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban“ zu verhindern, sind die Geräte mittlerweile auch in immer mehr deutschen Kinos im Einsatz. Für großes Medienecho sorgte die überwachungsaktion in einem Kino im Juli 2009 in Magdeburg. Wieder ging es um Warner Bros. und einen aktuellen Harry-Potter-Film. Der folgende Beitrag beschäftigt sich mit der datenschutzrechtlichen Zulässigkeit eines solchen Vorgehens. Neue Unabhängigkeit für den betrieblichen Datenschutzbeauftragten? fassungDer betriebliche Datenschutzbeauftragte dient der Selbstkontrolle der verantwortlichen Stelle. Wirksam ist solch eine Selbstkontrolle aber nur dann, wenn der Datenschutzbeauftragte auch Unabhägigkeit genießt. Welche Voraussetzungen hierfür erfüllt sein müssen, erläutert der folgende Beitrag. Dauerbrenner BDSG-Novellierung fassungDie Novellierung des BDSG in der 17. Legislaturperiode des Deutschen Bundestags ist praktisch unausweichlich und dringend nötig. Dabei sollten nicht die Fehler der letzten Jahre gemacht werden. Der Beitrag stellt die Novellierung des Datenschutzrechtes in einen größeren grundrechtlichen Kontext und macht praktische Vorschläge für die politische Umsetzung. Web-Schutz-Baukasten für Firefox fassungDieselbe Technik, die durch die Ausführung so genannter „aktiver Inhalte“ im Web-Browser attraktive, leistungsfähige und interaktive Web-Anwendungen ermöglicht, eröffnet auch Schadsoftware den Zugriff auf das System des Nutzers. Der Beitrag stellt einige Möglichkeiten vor, wie man sich beim Surfen mit dem Mozilla Firefox vor zahlreichen Angriffen schützen kann. Das Recht auf Nichtwissen in der Medizin fassungAllem menschlichen Wissen ist unumgänglich ein Mangel an Wissen immanent, ohne dass darin notwendigerweise ein Mangel läge. Nicht selten kann es sogar entlastend sein, etwas nicht wissen zu müssen: Unwissenheit ist eine Vorbedingung individueller Freiheit (Hans Jonas). Ob es allerdings auch ein durchsetzbares „Recht auf informationelle Abgeschiedenheit“ gibt, ist in dieser Grundsätzlichkeit bislang noch wenig geklärt. Der Beitrag will dieser Frage anhand mehrerer aktueller medizinrechtlicher Problemstellungen nachgehen. Wertewandel im Datenschutz und die Grundrechte fassungDer Begriff des Wertewandels kennzeichnet den Wandel grundlegender gesellschaftlicher Wertorientierungen. Die folgenden Ausführungen gehen auf den Wertewandel im Datenschutz ein und setzen sich mit der Frage auseinander, welche datenschutzrechtlichen und gesellschaftlichen Antworten ein solcher Wandel erfordert. Stopp-Schilder im Internet fassungWichtigen demokratischen Innovationsschüben ist die Hoffnung gemeinsam, dass Bürger mit ihrer Hilfe eine zentrale Bedeutung im Prozess der öffentlichen Meinungsbildung erlangen. Diese Erwartung gilt auch für das Internet, das dem Einzelnen einen großen virtuellen Lebensraum an Informations- und Kommunikationsverbindungen eröffnet, zugleich allerdings die Sicherheitsbehörden vor schwierige Probleme bei der Überwachung und Bekämpfung schwerer Kriminalität stellt, insbesondere in Feldern des Terrors und der Kinderpornografie. Der Bundesgesetzgeber will die Verbreitung von Kinderpornografie im Internet gesetzlich durch Zugriffssperren bzw. Löschverpflichtungen mit Hilfe der Provider erheblich eindämmen. Der Beitrag befasst sich mit den verfassungsrechtlichen und technischen Fragen solcher Maßnahmen. Die Einwilligung im Datenschutzrecht fassungKlassischerweise kommt der Einwilligung die Funktion eines Rechtfertigungsgrunds zu — wer in eine Verletzung seiner Rechtsgüter einwilligt, schließt damit die Rechtswidrigkeit dieser Verletzung aus, egal ob es um Freiheit, körperliche Unversehrtheit oder informationelle Selbstbestimmung geht. Gerade im Fall der informationellen Selbstbestimmung aber kommt der Einwilligung darüber hinaus zunehmend auch eine andere, neue Funktion zu, nämlich die eines Kommerzialisierungsinstruments. Mittels Einwilligung macht sich der Einzelne den wirtschaftlichen Wert seiner personenbezogenen Daten zunutze, er willigt in eine Verarbeitung seiner personenbezogenen Daten ein, um dafür im Gegenzug auch vom Datenverarbeiter eine Leistung (Werbegeschenke, Rabatte, kostenlose Online-Dienste etc.) zu erhalten. Die Einwilligung stellt so betrachtet die Gegenleistung in einem gegenseitigen Vertragsverhältnis dar, es kommt zu einem Tausch „Einwilligung gegen Leistung“. Der folgende Beitrag behandelt die rechtlichen Fragestellungen, die mit einer solchen Entwicklung einhergehen.