Routing Protocols In this chapter, we provide an overview of routing techniques used in a variety of computer communication networks in current operation. These include the public data networks tymnetandtranspac (the former is a specialized common carrier network based in the United States, but with connections to Europe as well; the latter is the French government PTT data network), arpanet, the U.S. Department of Defense Computer Network, and the commercial network architectures SNA (Systems Network Architecture) and DNA (Digital Network Architecture), developed by IBM and Digital Equipment Corporation, respectively. The networks are all examples of store-and-forward networks with data packets* moving from a source to a destination, buffered at intermediate nodes along a path. The path is defined simply as the collection of sequential communication links ultimately connecting source to destination. A Brief History of Computer Networking Computer networking as we know it today may be said to have gotten its start with the Arpanet development in the late 1960s and early 1970s. Prior to that time there were computer vendor “networks” designed primarily to connect terminals and remote job entry stations to a mainframe. But the notion of networking between computers viewing each other as equal peers to achieve “resource sharing” was fundamental to the arpanet
design [1]. The other strong emphasis of the Arpanet work was its reliance on the then novel technique of packet switching to efficiently share communication resources among “bursty” users, instead of the more traditional message or circuit switching. Network Interconnection and Gateways As computer networks proliferate, the importance of interconnecting networks increases. The recent explosion in the numbers of personal computers is leading to even greater growth in the local area network (LAN) area. Interconnecting these diverse networks presents many technical problems, and may be pursued in many ways [9], [16], [31], [32], [37]. Message Handling System Standards and Office Applications The author of this chapter made the following prediction in 1977: “During the next 50…years message systems will have as great an impact on the way business is done in our society as the impact that the telephone had on business practices during the last 100 years” [1]. That same article went on to describe some of the benefits of electronic messaging used for interpersonal interaction. Messaging was described in terms of an electronic post office box—a kind of data base where messages could be entered by a sender and retrieved at a later time by one or more recipients. This approach to messaging grew out of experiences on the U.S. Department of Defense arpanet
in the mid-1970s. The Reference Model for Open Systems Interconnection In the mid-1970s, the development and use of resource-sharing computer networks began to achieve considerable attention. The early successes of the arpanet
[1]  and cyclades [2], the immediate commercial potential of packet switching, satellite, and local network technology, and the declining cost of hardware made it apparent that computer networking was quickly becoming an important area of innovation and commerce. It was also apparent that to utilize the full potential of such computer networks, international standards would be required to ensure that any system could communicate with any other system anywhere in the world. Risikoanalyse verteilter und vernetzter Systeme Neben Problemen einzelner Rechensysteme (etwa “Computer-Viren”) nehmen die Risiken ungeplanter Nutzungsformen mit der schnell wachsenden Vernetzung einzeln unsicherer Systeme drastisch zu: unbefugte “Hacker” gelangen bereits mit geringen Kentnissen an sensitive Programme und Daten, und “Cracker” benutzen Netze zu Diebstahl, Spionage und Sabotage. Darüber hinaus führen unerkannte Denkfehler zu erheblichen Wirkungen, so beim Netz-induzierten “Börsen-Crash 1987”. Heute verbreitetes Benutzer-Verhalten gefährdet die Validität von Programmen und Daten auch im Hochschul-und Forschungsbereich.Bei der Gestaltung von Informationsverarbeitung und elektronischer Kommunikation liegen erste Ansätze zur Gewährleistung eines sicheren Betriebes vor. Diese müssen vor allem bei Planung, Organisation und Betrieb von Netzanwendungen berücksichtigt werden. Allerdings erfordert die Bewältigung der Probleme betrieblicher Sicherheit besondere Anstrengungen der Informatik. Anstelle der einfachen Implementierbarke it muß dabei vor allem die Beherrschbarkeit technischer Systeme beachtet werden. Die Diskussion über ethische und moralische Aspekte, etwa über verantwortliches Handeln von Gestaltern und Benutzern, macht eine Erweiterung informatischer Horizonte erforderlich.