The economy of attention in the age of (mis)information In this work we present a thorough quantitative analysis of information consumption patterns of qualitatively different information on Facebook. Pages are categorized, according to their topics and the communities of interests they pertain to, in a) alternative information sources (diffusing topics that are neglected by science and main stream media); b) online political activism; and c) main stream media. We find similar information consumption patterns despite the very different nature of contents. Then, we classify users according to their interaction patterns among the different topics and measure how they responded to the injection of 2788 false information (parodistic imitations of alternative stories). We find that users prominently interacting with alternative information sources – i.e. more exposed to unsubstantiated claims – are more prone to interact with intentional and parodistic false claims. The nature and evolution of online food preferences Food is a central element of humans’ life, and food preferences are amongst others manifestations of social, cultural and economic forces that influence the way we view, prepare and consume food. Historically, data for studies of food preferences stems from consumer panels which continuously capture food consumption and preference patterns from individuals and households. In this work we look at a new source of data, i.e., server log data from a large recipe platform on the World Wide Web, and explore its usefulness for understanding online food preferences. The main findings of this work are: (i) recipe preferences are partly driven by ingredients, (ii) recipe preference distributions exhibit more regional differences than ingredient preference distributions, and (iii) weekday preferences are clearly distinct from weekend preferences. Complex network analysis of teaching practices The application of functional analysis to infer networks in large datasets is potentially helpful to experimenters in various fields. In this paper, we develop a technique to construct networks of statistically significant transitions between variable pairs from a high-dimensional and multiscale dataset of teaching practices observed in Grade 5 and Grade 9 Mathematics classes obtained by the National Institute of Education in Singapore. From the Minimum Spanning Trees (MST) and Planar Maximally Filtered Graphs (PMFG) of the transition networks, we establish that teaching knowledge as truth and teacher-dominated talking serve as hubs for teaching practices in Singapore. These practices reflect a transmissionist model of teaching and learning. We also identify complex teacher-student-teacher-student interaction sequences of teaching practices that are over-represented in the data. Mental health related Internet use among psychiatric patients: a cross-sectional analysis BackgroundThe Internet is of great importance in today’s health sector, as most Internet users utilize online functions for health related purposes. Concerning the mental health care sector, little data exist about the Internet use of psychiatric patients. It is the scope of this current study to analyze the quantity and pattern of Internet usage among mental health patients.MethodsPatients from all services of the Department of Psychiatry at a university hospital were surveyed by completing a 29-item questionnaire. The data analysis included evaluation of frequencies, as well as group comparisons.Results337 patients participated in the survey, of whom 79.5% were Internet users. Social media was utilized by less than half of the users: social networks (47.8%), forums (19.4%), chats (18.7%), blogs (12.3%). 70.9% used the Internet for mental health related reasons. The contents accessed by the patients included: information on mental disorders (57.8%), information on medication (43.7%), search for mental health services (38.8%), platforms with other patients (19.8%) and platforms with mental health professionals (17.2%).Differences in the pattern of use between users with low, medium and high frequency of Internet use were statistically significant for all entities of social media (p < 0.01), search for mental health services (p = 0.017) and usage of platforms with mental health professionals (p = 0. 048).The analysis of differences in Internet use depending on the participants’ type of mental disorder revealed no statistically significant differences, with one exception. Regarding the Internet’s role in mental health care, the participants showed differing opinions: 36.2% believe that the Internet has or may have helped them in coping with their mental disorder, while 38.4% stated the contrary.ConclusionsMost psychiatric patients are Internet users. Mental health related Internet use is common among patients, mainly for information seeking. The use of social media is generally less frequent. It varies significantly between different user types and was shown to be associated with high frequency of Internet use. The results illustrate the importance of the Internet in mental health related contexts and may contribute to the further development of mental health related online offers. Enterprise 2.0: a boon or bane for entrepreneurial and innovative expenditures? Social media’s unabated and unprecedented adoption and growth among masses across the globe and fast emergence of innovative, open, cost effective, at times free of cost, and flexible Social media platforms has opened hitherto unexpected or previously unknown vistas for business organizations. Adoption of social media platforms in organizations coupled with the openness, collaboration, interaction, and involvement inherent in social media has led to a state that these organizations are now being termed as Enterprise 2.0. Though social media platforms are being criticized by many for unwarranted attention and importance, embracing these platforms by people worldwide has a different story to tell. This paper is an attempt in this direction to look into the potential of social media for business organizations by focusing the attention on various prospects and problems associated with the adoption of these platforms in pursuing innovative and entrepreneurial expenditures of business organizations and to suggest some ways for effective and smooth incorporation of the same in the organizations. Researchers conclude that as far as the adoption of Enterprise 2.0 technologies is concerned, the most significant issue to deal with is the approach to be adopted for incorporation of these technologies in the organization in an integrative fashion. Research may prove to be beneficial for the academicians by giving them a comprehensive view of various aspects of the Enterprise 2.0 and for the practitioners by providing them guidelines for effective incorporation of the social technologies in their organizations. Educational interventions to improve prescription and dispensing of antibiotics: a systematic review BackgroundExcessive and inappropriate antibiotic use contributes to growing antibiotic resistance, an important public-health problem. Strategies must be developed to improve antibiotic-prescribing. Our purpose is to review of educational programs aimed at improving antibiotic-prescribing by physicians and/or antibiotic-dispensing by pharmacists, in both primary-care and hospital settings.MethodsWe conducted a critical systematic search and review of the relevant literature on educational programs aimed at improving antibiotic prescribing and dispensing practice in primary-care and hospital settings, published in January 2001 through December 2011.ResultsWe identified 78 studies for analysis, 47 in primary-care and 31 in hospital settings. The studies differed widely in design but mostly reported positive results. Outcomes measured in the reviewed studies were adherence to guidelines, total of antibiotics prescribed, or both, attitudes and behavior related to antibiotic prescribing and quality of pharmacy practice related to antibiotics. Twenty-nine studies (62%) in primary care and twenty-four (78%) in hospital setting reported positive results for all measured outcomes; fourteen studies (30%) in primary care and six (20%) in hospital setting reported positive results for some outcomes and results that were not statistically influenced by the intervention for others; only four studies in primary care and one study in hospital setting failed to report significant post-intervention improvements for all outcomes. Improvement in adherence to guidelines and decrease of total of antibiotics prescribed, after educational interventions, were observed, respectively, in 46% and 41% of all the reviewed studies. Changes in behaviour related to antibiotic-prescribing and improvement in quality of pharmacy practice was observed, respectively, in four studies and one study respectively.ConclusionThe results show that antibiotic use could be improved by educational interventions, being mostly used multifaceted interventions. A modified evidence-based practice- knowledge, attitudes, behaviour and decisions/outcomes questionnaire is valid across multiple professions involved in pain management BackgroundA validated and reliable instrument was developed to knowledge, attitudes and behaviours with respect to evidence-based practice (EBB-KABQ) in medical trainees but requires further adaptation and validation to be applied across different health professionals.MethodsA modified 33-item evidence-based practice scale (EBP-KABQ) was developed to evaluate EBP perceptions and behaviors in clinicians. An international sample of 673 clinicians interested in treatment of pain (mean age = 45 years, 48% occupational therapists/physical therapists, 25% had more than 5 years of clinical training) completed an online English version of the questionnaire and demographics. Scaling properties (internal consistency, floor/ceiling effects) and construct validity (association with EBP activities, comparator constructs) were examined. A confirmatory factor analysis was used to assess the 4-domain structure EBP knowledge, attitudes, behavior, outcomes/decisions).ResultsThe EBP-KABQ scale demonstrated high internal consistency (Cronbach’s alpha = 0.85), no evident floor/ceiling effects, and support for a priori construct validation hypotheses. A 4-factor structure provided the best fit statistics (CFI =0.89, TLI =0.86, and RMSEA = 0.06).ConclusionsThe EBP-KABQ scale demonstrates promising psychometric properties in this sample. Areas for improvement are described. A web-based intervention to support self-management of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: effect on self-efficacy, self-care and diabetes distress BackgroundManagement of diabetes mellitus is complex and involves controlling multiple risk factors that may lead to complications. Given that patients provide most of their own diabetes care, patient self-management training is an important strategy for improving quality of care. Web-based interventions have the potential to bridge gaps in diabetes self-care and self-management. The objective of this study was to determine the effect of a web-based patient self-management intervention on psychological (self-efficacy, quality of life, self-care) and clinical (blood pressure, cholesterol, glycemic control, weight) outcomes.MethodsFor this cohort study we used repeated-measures modelling and qualitative individual interviews. We invited patients with type 2 diabetes to use a self-management website and asked them to complete questionnaires assessing self-efficacy (primary outcome) every three weeks for nine months before and nine months after they received access to the website. We collected clinical outcomes at three-month intervals over the same period. We conducted in-depth interviews at study conclusion to explore acceptability, strengths and weaknesses, and mediators of use of the website. We analyzed the data using a qualitative descriptive approach and inductive thematic analysis.ResultsEighty-one participants (mean age 57.2 years, standard deviation 12) were included in the analysis. The self-efficacy score did not improve significantly more than expected after nine months (absolute change 0.12; 95% confidence interval −0.028, 0.263; p = 0.11), nor did clinical outcomes. Website usage was limited (average 0.7 logins/month). Analysis of the interviews (n = 21) revealed four themes: 1) mediators of website use; 2) patterns of website use, including role of the blog in driving site traffic; 3) feedback on website; and 4) potential mechanisms for website effect.ConclusionsA self-management website for patients with type 2 diabetes did not improve self-efficacy. Website use was limited. Although its perceived reliability, availability of a blog and emailed reminders drew people to the website, participants’ struggles with type 2 diabetes, competing priorities in their lives, and website accessibility were barriers to its use. Future interventions should aim to integrate the intervention seamlessly into the daily routine of end users such that it is not seen as yet another chore. A use case study on late stent thrombosis for ontology-based temporal reasoning and analysis In this paper, we show how we have applied the Clinical Narrative Temporal Relation Ontology (CNTRO) and its associated temporal reasoning system (the CNTRO Timeline Library) to trend temporal information within medical device adverse event report narratives. 238 narratives documenting occurrences of late stent thrombosis adverse events from the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) Manufacturing and User Facility Device Experience (MAUDE) database were annotated and evaluated using the CNTRO Timeline Library to identify, order, and calculate the duration of temporal events. The CNTRO Timeline Library had a 95% accuracy in correctly ordering events within the 238 narratives. 41 narratives included an event in which the duration was documented, and the CNTRO Timeline Library had an 80% accuracy in correctly determining these durations. 77 narratives included documentation of a duration between events, and the CNTRO Timeline Library had a 76% accuracy in determining these durations. This paper also includes an example of how this temporal output from the CNTRO ontology can be used to verify recommendations for length of drug administration, and proposes that these same tools could be applied to other medical device adverse event narratives in order to identify currently unknown temporal trends. In-Situ Stabilization of Soil Slopes Using Nailed or Anchored Geosynthetics The incidence of soil slope instability is, and has been, a natural hazard of major proportions and is ongoing to this day. While stabilization can be afforded by excavation and reconstruction, oftentimes structures and utilities are involved requiring in situ stabilization methods. This paper is focused accordingly. The method uses soil nails or soil anchors connected to a geosynthetic surface covering which is tensioned thereby stabilizing the encapsulated soil and providing tensile reinforcement. The paper is subdivided as follows: (i) introduction and theoretical background, (ii) required theoretical modifications, (iii) basics of soil nailing and anchors along with surface geosynthetics effects, (iv) implementation of the technique, (v) current activities by manufacturers, suppliers and ground modification companies, and (vi) summary and conclusions. Meeting report: advancing practical applications of biodiversity ontologies We describe the outcomes of three recent workshops aimed at advancing development of the Biological Collections Ontology (BCO), the Population and Community Ontology (PCO), and tools to annotate data using those and other ontologies. The first workshop gathered use cases to help grow the PCO, agreed upon a format for modeling challenging concepts such as ecological niche, and developed ontology design patterns for defining collections of organisms and population-level phenotypes. The second focused on mapping datasets to ontology terms and converting them to Resource Description Framework (RDF), using the BCO. To follow-up, a BCO hackathon was held concurrently with the 16th Genomics Standards Consortium Meeting, during which we converted additional datasets to RDF, developed a Material Sample Core for the Global Biodiversity Information Framework, created a Web Ontology Language (OWL) file for importing Darwin Core classes and properties into BCO, and developed a workflow for converting biodiversity data among formats. Meeting the Security Requirements of Electronic Medical Records in the ERA of High-Speed Computing This study has two objectives. First, it aims to develop a system with a highly secured approach to transmitting electronic medical records (EMRs), and second, it aims to identify entities that transmit private patient information without permission. The NTRU and the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) cryptosystems are secured encryption methods. The AES is a tested technology that has already been utilized in several systems to secure sensitive data. The United States government has been using AES since June 2003 to protect sensitive and essential information. Meanwhile, NTRU protects sensitive data against attacks through the use of quantum computers, which can break the RSA cryptosystem and elliptic curve cryptography algorithms. A hybrid of AES and NTRU is developed in this work to improve EMR security. The proposed hybrid cryptography technique is implemented to secure the data transmission process of EMRs. The proposed security solution can provide protection for over 40 years and is resistant to quantum computers. Moreover, the technique provides the necessary evidence required by law to identify disclosure or misuse of patient records. The proposed solution can effectively secure EMR transmission and protect patient rights. It also identifies the source responsible for disclosing confidential patient records. The proposed hybrid technique for securing data managed by institutional websites must be improved in the future. Effectiveness of tailored lifestyle interventions, using web-based and print-mail, for reducing blood pressure among rural women with prehypertension: main results of the Wellness for Women: DASHing towards Healthclinical trial BackgroundLifestyle modification is recommended for management of prehypertension, yet finding effective interventions to reach rural women is a public health challenge. This community-based clinical trial compared the effectiveness of standard advice to two multi-component theory-based tailored interventions, using web-based or print-mailed delivery, in reducing blood pressure among rural women, ages 40–69, with prehypertension.Methods289 women with prehypertension enrolled in the Wellness for Women: DASHing towards Health trial, a 12-month intervention with 12-month follow-up. Women were randomly assigned to groups using a 1:2:2 ratio, comparing standard advice (30-minute counseling session) to two interventions (two 2-hour counseling sessions, 5 phone goal-setting sessions, strength-training video, and 16 tailored newsletters, web-based or print-mailed). Linear mixed model methods were used to test planned pairwise comparisons of marginal mean change in blood pressure, healthy eating and activity, adjusted for age and baseline level. General estimating equations were used to examine the proportion of women achieving normotensive status and meeting health outcome criteria for eating and activity.ResultsMean blood pressure reduction ranged from 3.8 (SD = 9.8) mm Hg to 8.1 (SD = 10.4) mm Hg. The 24-month estimated marginal proportions of women achieving normotensive status were 47% for web-based, and 39% for both print-mailed and standard advice groups, with no group differences (p = .11 and p = .09, respectively). Web-based and print-mailed groups improved more than standard advice group for waist circumference (p = .017 and p = .016, respectively); % daily calories from fat (p = .018 and p = .030) and saturated fat (p = .049 and p = .013); daily servings of fruit and vegetables (p = .008 and p < .005); and low fat dairy (p < .001 and p = .002). Greater improvements were observed in web-based versus standard advice groups in systolic blood pressure (p = .048) and estimated VO2max (p = .037). Dropout rates were 6% by 6-months, 11.4% by 24 months, with no differences across groups.ConclusionsRural women with prehypertension receiving distance-delivery theory-based lifestyle modifications can achieve a reduction of blood pressure and attainment of normotensive status.Trial registrationClinicalTrials.gov NCT00580528 Notes on Cloud computing principles This letter provides a review of fundamental distributed systems and economic Cloud computing principles. These principles are frequently deployed in their respective fields, but their interdependencies are often neglected. Given that Cloud Computing first and foremost is a new business model, a new model to sell computational resources, the understanding of these concepts is facilitated by treating them in unison. Here, we review some of the most important concepts and how they relate to each other. The impact of hospital-based and community based models of cerebral palsy rehabilitation: a quasi-experimental study BackgroundCerebral palsy requires appropriate on-going rehabilitation intervention which should effectively meet the needs of both children and parents/care-givers. The provision of effective support is a challenge, particularly in resource constrained settings. A quasi-experimental pragmatic research design was used to compare the impact of two models of rehabilitation service delivery currently offered in Harare, Zimbabwe, an outreach-based programme and the other institution-based.MethodQuestionnaires were distributed to 46 caregivers of children with cerebral palsy at baseline and after three months. Twenty children received rehabilitation services in a community setting and 26 received services as outpatients at a central hospital. The Gross Motor Function Measurement was used to assess functional change. The burden of care was measured using the Caregiver Strain Index, satisfaction with physiotherapy was assessed using the modified Medrisk satisfaction with physiotherapy services questionnaire and compliance was measured as the proportion met of the scheduled appointments.ResultsChildren receiving outreach-based treatment were significantly older than children in the institution-based group. Regression analysis revealed that, once age and level of severity were controlled for, children in the outreach-based treatment group improved their motor function 6% more than children receiving institution-based services.There were no differences detected between the groups with regard to caregiver well-being and 51% of the caregivers reported signs consistent with clinical distress/depression. Most caregivers (83%) expressed that they were overwhelmed by the caregiving role and this increased with the chronicity of care. The financial burden of caregiver was predictive of caregiver strain.Caregivers in the outreach-based group reported greater satisfaction with services and were more compliant (p < .001) as compared to recipients of institution-based services.ConclusionLong term caregiving leads to strain in caregivers and there is a need to design interventions to alleviate the burden. The study was a pragmatic, quasi-experimental study thus causality cannot be inferred. However findings from this study suggest that the provision of care within a community setting as part of a well-structured outreach programme may be preferable method of service delivery within a resource-constrained context. It was associated with a greater improvement in functioning, greater satisfaction with services and better compliance. Ambient-aware continuous care through semantic context dissemination BackgroundThe ultimate ambient-intelligent care room contains numerous sensors and devices to monitor the patient, sense and adjust the environment and support the staff. This sensor-based approach results in a large amount of data, which can be processed by current and future applications, e.g., task management and alerting systems. Today, nurses are responsible for coordinating all these applications and supplied information, which reduces the added value and slows down the adoption rate.The aim of the presented research is the design of a pervasive and scalable framework that is able to optimize continuous care processes by intelligently reasoning on the large amount of heterogeneous care data.MethodsThe developed Ontology-based Care Platform (OCarePlatform) consists of modular components that perform a specific reasoning task. Consequently, they can easily be replicated and distributed. Complex reasoning is achieved by combining the results of different components. To ensure that the components only receive information, which is of interest to them at that time, they are able to dynamically generate and register filter rules with a Semantic Communication Bus (SCB). This SCB semantically filters all the heterogeneous care data according to the registered rules by using a continuous care ontology. The SCB can be distributed and a cache can be employed to ensure scalability.ResultsA prototype implementation is presented consisting of a new-generation nurse call system supported by a localization and a home automation component. The amount of data that is filtered and the performance of the SCB are evaluated by testing the prototype in a living lab. The delay introduced by processing the filter rules is negligible when 10 or fewer rules are registered.ConclusionsThe OCarePlatform allows disseminating relevant care data for the different applications and additionally supports composing complex applications from a set of smaller independent components. This way, the platform significantly reduces the amount of information that needs to be processed by the nurses. The delay resulting from processing the filter rules is linear in the amount of rules. Distributed deployment of the SCB and using a cache allows further improvement of these performance results. On translating technology research into industrial applications  TopFed: TCGA tailored federated query processing and linking to LOD BackgroudThe Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) is a multidisciplinary, multi-institutional effort to catalogue genetic mutations responsible for cancer using genome analysis techniques. One of the aims of this project is to create a comprehensive and open repository of cancer related molecular analysis, to be exploited by bioinformaticians towards advancing cancer knowledge. However, devising bioinformatics applications to analyse such large dataset is still challenging, as it often requires downloading large archives and parsing the relevant text files. Therefore, it is making it difficult to enable virtual data integration in order to collect the critical co-variates necessary for analysis.MethodsWe address these issues by transforming the TCGA data into the Semantic Web standard Resource Description Format (RDF), link it to relevant datasets in the Linked Open Data (LOD) cloud and further propose an efficient data distribution strategy to host the resulting 20.4 billion triples data via several SPARQL endpoints. Having the TCGA data distributed across multiple SPARQL endpoints, we enable biomedical scientists to query and retrieve information from these SPARQL endpoints by proposing a TCGA tailored federated SPARQL query processing engine named TopFed.ResultsWe compare TopFed with a well established federation engine FedX in terms of source selection and query execution time by using 10 different federated SPARQL queries with varying requirements. Our evaluation results show that TopFed selects on average less than half of the sources (with 100% recall) with query execution time equal to one third to that of FedX.ConclusionWith TopFed, we aim to offer biomedical scientists a single-point-of-access through which distributed TCGA data can be accessed in unison. We believe the proposed system can greatly help researchers in the biomedical domain to carry out their research effectively with TCGA as the amount and diversity of data exceeds the ability of local resources to handle its retrieval and parsing. A partner-matching framework for social activity communities A lot of daily activities require more than one person to participate and collaborate with each other; however, for many people, it is not easy to find good partners to engage in activities with one another. With the rapid growth of social network applications, more and more people get used to creating connections with people on the social network. Therefore, designing social network framework for partner-matching is significant in helping people to easily find good partners. In this paper, we proposed a framework which can match partners for an active community. In order to improve the matching performance, all users are divided into groups based on a specific classification tree that is built for a specific activity. The optimization goal of the partner-matching is to maintain as many stable partnerships as possible in the community. To achieve the goal, various factors are considered to design matching functions. The simulation results show that the proposed framework can help most people find stable partners quickly. Bridging structured and unstructured data via hybrid semantic search and interactive ontology-enhanced query formulation In this paper, we identify the problems of current semantic and hybrid search systems, which seek to bridge structure and unstructured data, and propose solutions. We introduce a novel input mechanism for hybrid semantic search that combines the clean and concise input mechanisms of keyword-based search engines with the expressiveness of the input mechanisms provided by semantic search engines. This interactive input mechanism can be used to formulate ontology-aware search queries without prior knowledge of the ontology. Furthermore, we propose a system architecture for automatically fetching relevant unstructured data, complementing structured data stored in a Knowledge Base, to create a combined index. This combined index can be used to conduct hybrid semantic searches which leverage information from structured and unstructured sources. We present the reference implementation Hybrid Semantic Search System ($$HS^3$$HS3), which uses the combined index to put hybrid semantic search into practice and implements the interactive ontology-enhanced keyword-based input mechanism. For demonstration purpose, we apply $$HS^3$$HS3 to the tourism domain. We present performance test results and the results of a user evaluation. Finally, we provide instructions on how to apply $$HS^3$$HS3 to arbitrary domains. Non-parametric topic model for discovering geographical topic variations This paper presents a non-parametric topic model that captures not only the latent topics in text collections, but also how the topics change over space. Unlike other recent work that relies on either Gaussian assumptions or discretization of locations, here topics are associated with a distance dependent Chinese Restaurant Process (ddCRP), and for each document, the observed words are influenced by the document’s GPS-tag. Our model allows both unbound number and flexible distribution of the geographical variations of the topics’ content. We develop a Gibbs sampler for the proposal, and compare it with existing models on a real data set basis. Reading information about a scientific phenomenon on webpages varying for reliability: an eye-movement analysis Students search the Web frequently for many purposes, one of which is to search information for academic assignments. Given the huge amount of easily accessible online information, they are required to develop new reading skills and become more able to effectively evaluate the reliability of web sources. This study investigates the distribution of their visual attention while reading webpages using eye-tracking methodology. The aim was to examine whether information received differential attention depending on the reliability of the source and whether the individual characteristics of topic-specific prior knowledge and epistemic beliefs moderated their visual behavior during reading. Factual knowledge after reading was also examined. Forty-nine university students read four webpages providing verbal and graphical information about the universal validity of the central dogma of molecular biology, which varied for reliability. Indices of first-pass and second-pass reading or inspection were used to trace the processing of information within each page. Findings revealed that readers made an implicit source evaluation as they spent a longer time inspecting the pictures about the more and less familiar information within the most reliable source during the immediate, more automatic, processing. In addition, topic-specific epistemic beliefs moderated this processing as readers with more availing convictions about knowledge attended more the information provided in pages that required more discernment. Moreover, readers increased their factual knowledge of the topic after reading. Educational implications are outlined. Rankings, research styles, and publication cultures: a study of American sociology departments Rankings have become a major form of quality assessment in higher education over the past few decades. Most rankings rely, to varying extent, on bibliometric indicators intended to capture the quantity and quality of the scientific output of institutions. The growing popularity of this practice has raised a number of concerns, one of the most important being whether evaluations of this sort treat different work styles and publication habits in an unbiased manner and, consequently, whether the resulting rankings properly respect the particular modes of research characteristic of various disciplines and subdisciplines. The research reported in this paper looked at this issue, using data on more than one hundred US sociology departments. Our results showed that institutions that are more quantitative in character are more likely to favor journals over books as the dominant form of scientific communication and fare, in general, considerably better on the National Research Council’s assessment than their qualitative equivalents. After controlling for differences in publication practices, the impact of research style declined but remained statistically significant. It thus seems that the greater preference of qualitative departments for books over articles as publication outlets puts them at a disadvantage as far as quality assessments are concerned, although their lagging behind their quantitative counterparts cannot fully be explained by this factor alone. Design for maintenance: how KMS document linking decisions affect maintenance effort and use Information system maintenance is an important aspect of information system development, especially in systems that provide dynamic content, such as Web-based systems and Knowledge Management Systems (KMS). Design for Maintenance (DFM) is an approach that argues that maintenance effort should be considered during the design of information systems in addition to the usual system design considerations. This research examines how the design of links among knowledge documents in a KMS affects both their maintenance and use. We argue that providing links among knowledge documents increases the cost of maintenance because when a document changes, the documents that link to and from that document are more likely to need changes. At the same, linking knowledge documents makes it easier to locate useful knowledge and thus increases use. We examine this tension between use and maintenance using 10 years of data from a well-established KMS. Our results indicate that as the number of links among documents increases, both maintenance effort and use for these documents increase. Our analyses suggest two DFM principles for dynamic content in practice. First, knowledge coupling (i.e., linking) to documents internal to the KMS rather than sources external to the KMS better balances maintenance effort and use. Second, designing small, knowledge cohesive documents (e.g., 250–350 words) leads to the best balance between maintenance effort and use. The quality of snoring treatment information on the internet The aim of this study was to assess the quality of information available on the World Wide Web regarding the treatment of snoring. The main data source was from internet searches using the three most popular search engines using the keywords “snoring treatment”. First page websites were evaluated using the DISCERN instrument (assessing reliability and information given about treatment choices). Of the 135 websites identified, 16 unique websites were evaluated in the study (the remaining being adverts or repetitions). The websites had an average overall score of 2.37 out of 5 (range 1.19–4) and 37.5 % of the websites evaluated scored less than 2 out of 5 overall, suggesting very poor quality information. Highly ranked websites on popular search engines may not contain the most reliable information. Overall the information on the internet regarding the treatment of snoring is poor and patients should be encouraged to discuss their findings with a medical professional. DSL-driven generation of Graphical User Interfaces Domain-specific languages (DSLs) are becoming more and more popular. However, the number of DSLs is still small when comparing to the number of existing applications. The results of our previous research showed that it is possible to speed up the DSL development process by aiding the first development phases (design and implementation). More specifically it is possible to generate DSLs from existing GUIs (Graphical User Interfaces) of component-based applications. Now we want to use the generated DSLs and their models to generate new user interfaces or even whole new applications. To verify this claim, in this paper we use existing technologies which simplify the creation of web applications: iTasks. We also describe stereotypes of creating GUIs which we used to extract data from existing applications and to generate new applications. In the last part of this paper we limit the types of applications, which can be used for extraction based on our experiments with the prototype. An adaptive switching scheme for iterative computing in the cloud Delta-based accumulative iterative computation (DAIC) model is currently proposed to support iterative algorithms in a synchronous or an asynchronous way. However, both the synchronous DAIC model and the asynchronous DAIC model only satisfy some given conditions, respectively, and perform poorly under other conditions either for high synchronization cost or for many redundant activations. As a result, the whole performance of both DAIC models suffers fromthe serious network jitter and load jitter caused bymultitenancy in the cloud. In this paper, we develop a system, namely HybIter, to guarantee the performance of iterative algorithms under different conditions. Through an adaptive execution model selection scheme, it can efficiently switch between synchronous and asynchronous DAIC model in order to be adapted to different conditions, always getting the best performance in the cloud. Experimental results show that our approach can improve the performance of current solutions up to 39.0%. Reasoning with Nominal Schemas through Absorption Nominal schemas have recently been introduced as a new approach for the integration of DL-safe rules into the Description Logic framework. The efficient processing of knowledge bases with nominal schemas remains, however, challenging. We address this by extending the well-known optimisation of absorption as well as the standard tableau calculus to directly handle the (absorbed) nominal schema axioms. We implement the resulting extension of standard tableau calculi in the novel reasoning system Konclude and present further optimisations. In our empirical evaluation, we show the effect of these optimisations and we find that the proposed nominal schema handling performs well even when compared to (hyper)tableau systems with dedicated rule support. Good Enough is Good Enough: Overcoming Disaster Response Organizations’ Slow Social Media Data Adoption Organizations that respond to disasters hold unreasonable standards for data arising from technology-enabled citizen contributions. This has strong negative potential for the ability of these responding organizations to incorporate these data into appropriate decision points. We argue that the landscape of the use of social media data in crisis response is varied, with pockets of use and acceptance among organizations. In this paper we present findings from interviews conducted with representatives from large international disaster response organizations concerning their use of social media data in crisis response. We found that emergency responders already operate with less than reliable, or “good enough,” information in offline practice, and that social media data are useful to responders, but only in specific crisis situations. Also, responders do use social media, but only within their known community and extended network. This shows that trust first begins with people and not data. Lastly, we demonstrate the barriers used by responding organizations have gone beyond discussions of trustworthiness and data quality to that of more operational issues. The Diffusion and Impacts of Information and Communication Technology on Tourism in the Western Cape, South Africa Two features of the globalising economy are its technological dynamism and its increasing service orientation. International tourism is an important element of the “new economy” of globalisation, as are new information and communication technologies. The relations between these two central elements of the reconfiguring world system have been under-theorised. Based on extensive primary fieldwork in Western Cape Province, South Africa, this paper explores the impact of new information and communication technologies on tourism development. It finds that, while these new technologies are extensively used in marketing and booking, in particular, foreign-owned websites have established a dominant command and control function, thereby replicating previous patterns of economic extraversion. SFDCloud: top-k service faults diagnosis in cloud computing With a variety of providers large and small delivering a number of cloud-based services, cloud computing is evolving into an important service delivery infrastructure. One of the challenges in this evolution is how to provide necessary fault handling for migration long-running or computationally-intensive application services into shared open cloud infrastructures. To minimize failure impact on services and application executions, we present a diagnostic architecture and a diagnosis method based on the service dependence graph (SDG) model and the service execution log for handling service faults. By decoupling diagnosis service components and sharing diagnosis resources, the scalability of diagnosis methods is improved by incorporating third-party diagnostic components into our architecture. By analyzing the dependence relations of activities in SDG model, our diagnosis method identifies the incorrect activities, and explains the root causes for the web service composition faults, based on the differences between successful and failed executions of composite service. Experimental results show that our method is effective in diagnosing faults in web service composition of various scales. Web Page Textual Color Contrast Compensation for CVD Users Using Optimization Methods With this paper, we propose two methods for color contrast compensation of the textual information contained in a web page using numerical optimization. The optimization process can be reduced to the minimization of a single objective function which aims to achieve an on-the-fly compensation inducing a small amount of change in the original colors. Mass-spring system based optimization and CMA-ES metaheuristics are compared with the problem in order to assess their efficiency for compensating the loss. Experiments conducted on real and artificial datasets, prove the methods efficiency even with a small number of evaluations. Also, the methods behaviour is bound to the amount of compensation needed. Innovation through collaboration: scaling up solutions for sustainable development The open collaborative philosophy employed in the success of open source (OS) software can be applied to hardware design. Specifically, the development of OS appropriate technologies (OSAT) can improve sustainable development efforts worldwide. Yet, widespread OSAT use is far from ubiquitous. Given that lack of communication, access to information and poor collaboration are among the largest barriers to a more effective OSAT dissemination, this paper explores opportunities to overcome such obstacles using four techniques: (1) collaborative online platforms, (2) crowd-sourcing, (3) the concept of knowledge commons, and (4) enabled educational institutions through service learning and applied research. The results are analyzed, and conclusions are drawn that outline paths to higher multiuser collaboration for OSAT deployment. A correlation-driven optimal service selection approach for virtual enterprise establishment A virtual enterprise is an emerging business cooperation model which allows rapid response to the unpredictable market behavior and opportunity. For service oriented enterprises, where computing resources are encapsulated as services and published online, establishing a virtual enterprise can be regarded as a process of service composition. As there are increasing numbers of available services providing similar functionalities but with different quality values, and with potential business correlations among them, it is not trivial to orchestrate a composite service with optimal overall quality of service (QoS). In this paper, we formally propose a business correlation model including both quality correlations and selection correlations, and then present an efficient approach for correlation-driven QoS-aware optimal service selection based on a genetic algorithm. The genetic algorithm is tailored with niching technology, a repair operator and a penalty mechanism. The effectiveness and efficiency of the approach are demonstrated via empirical studies at last. A day without a search engine: an experimental study of online and offline searches With the evolution of the Web and development of web-based search engines, online searching has become a common method for obtaining information. Given this popularity, the question arises as to how much time people save by using search engines for their information needs compared to offline sources, as well as how online searching affects both search experiences and search outcomes. Using a random sample of queries from a major search engine and a sample of reference questions from the Internet Public Library (IPL), we conduct a real-effort experiment to compare online and offline search experiences and outcomes. We find that participants are significantly more likely to find an answer on the Web (100 %), compared to offline searching (between 87 % and 90 %). Restricting our analysis to the set of questions in which participants find answers in both treatments, a Web search takes on average 7 (9) minutes, whereas the corresponding offline search takes 22 (19) minutes for a search-engine (IPL) question. Furthermore, while raters judge library sources to be significantly more trustworthy and authoritative than the corresponding Web sources, they judge Web sources as significantly more relevant. Balancing all factors, we find that the overall source quality is not significantly different between the two treatments for the set of search-engine questions. However, for IPL questions, we find that non-Web sources are judged to have significantly higher overall quality than the corresponding Web sources. In comparison, for factual questions, Web search results are significantly more likely to be correct (66 % vs. 43 %). Lastly, post-search questionnaires reveal that participants find online searching more enjoyable than offline searching. Capturing Place Semantics on the GeoSocial Web Massive interest in geo-referencing of personal resources is evident on the web. People are collaboratively digitising maps and building place knowledge resources that document personal use and experiences in geographic places. Understanding and discovering these place semantics can potentially lead to the development of a different type of place gazetteer that holds not only standard information of place names and geographic location but also activities practiced by people in a place and vernacular views of place characteristics. In this paper, a novel framework is proposed for the analysis of geo-folksonomies and the automatic discovery of place-related semantics. The framework is based on a model of geographic place that extends the definition of place as defined in traditional gazetteers and geospatial ontologies to include the notion of place affordance. The derived place-related concepts are compared against an expert formal ontology of place types and activities and evaluated using both a user-based evaluation experiment and by measuring the degree of semantic relatedness of the derived concepts. To demonstrate the utility of the proposed framework, an application is developed to illustrate the possible enrichment of search experience by exposing the derived semantics to users of web mapping applications. New record of the short-tailed pipefish, Microphis brachyurus brachyurus (Teleostei: Syngnathidae), with a key to the species of the family Syngnathidae from Korea A single specimen of Microphis brachyurus brachyurus, belonging to the family Syngnathidae, was collected for the first time in Korea (Busan) on July 10, 2013. This specimen had 35 dorsal fin rays, 20 pectoral fin rays and 9 caudal fin rays. M. brachyurus brachyurus differs from Syngnathus schlegeli, the most common pipefish in Korean waters, in its body proportions (longer trunk than tail in M. brachyurus brachyurus vs shorter trunk than tail in S. schlegeli), configuration of the lateral ridge (confluent with the inferior tail ridge vs confluent with the lateral tail ridge, respectively) and the number of caudal fin rays (9 vs 10, respectively). We suggest the new Korean names “Zzal-beun-ggo-ri-sil-go-gi-sok” for the genus Microphis and “Zzal-beun-ggo-ri-sil-go-gi” for the species M. brachyurus brachyurus. SWEET ontology coverage for earth system sciences Scientists in the Earth and Environmental Sciences (EES) domain increasingly use ontologies to analyze and integrate their data. For example, the NASA’s SWEET ontologies (Semantic Web for Earth and Environmental Terminology) have become the de facto standard ontologies to represent the EES domain formally (Raskin 2010). Now we must develop principled ways both to evaluate existing ontologies and to ascertain their quality in a quantitative manner. Existing literature describes many potential quality metrics for ontologies. Among these metrics is the coverage metric, which approximates the relevancy of an ontology to a corpus (Yao et al. (PLoS Comput Biol 7(1):e1001055+, 2011)). This paper has three primary contributions to the EES domain: (1) we present an investigation of the applicability of existing coverage techniques for the EES domain; (2) we present a novel expansion of existing techniques that uses thesauri to generate equivalence and subclass axioms automatically; and (3) we present an experiment to establish an upper-bound coverage expectation for the SWEET ontologies against real-world EES corpora from DataONE (Michener et al. (Ecol Inform 11:5–15, 2012)), and a corpus designed from research articles to specifically match the topics covered by the SWEET ontologies. This initial evaluation suggests that the SWEET ontology can accurately represent real corpora within the EES domain. A survey of emerging patterns for supervised classification Obtaining accurate class prediction of a query object is an important component of supervised classification. However, it could be also important to understand the classification in terms of the application domain, mostly if the prediction disagrees with the expected results. Many accurate classifiers are unable to explain their classification results in terms understandable by an application expert. Classifiers based on emerging patterns, on the other hand, are accurate and easy to understand. The goal of this article is to review the state-of-the-art methods for mining emerging patterns, classify them by different taxonomies, and identify new trends. In this survey, we present the most important emerging pattern miners, categorizing them on the basis of the mining paradigm, the use of discretization, and the stage where the mining occurs. We provide detailed descriptions of the mining paradigms with their pros and cons, what helps researchers and users to select the appropriate algorithm for a given application. Introduction to Corporate Leaders Analytics and Network System (CLANS) in China and Its Data Management Mechanism Social network plays a vital role in Chinese business and is highly valued by business people. However, social network analysis is difficult due to issues in data collection, natural language processing, network detection and construction, data management and mining. Thus, we develop the Corporate Leaders Analytics and Network System (CLANS) to tackle some of these problems. One of the important topics as well as the focus in this paper is Data Management. Data Management is essential in both research and industrial areas, especially for the fields that need text processing, like business domain. Therefore, to achieve appropriate data management in CLANS, we propose a novel approach by integrating the essential XML files and auxiliary databases, with a flexible and extensible data schema. This data schema is the kernel of our data management. It achieves plenty of superiorities, namely, separability, scalability, traceability, distinguishability, version control and maintainability. In brief, we give an overall introduction of CLANS and specifically illustrate its data management mechanism with the data schema in this paper. Applications of the Variance of Final Outbreak Size for Disease Spreading in Networks The assumption that all susceptible individuals are equally likely to acquire the disease during an outbreak (by direct contact with an infective individual) can be relaxed by bringing into the disease spread model a contact structure between individuals in the population. The structure is a random network or random graph that describes the kind of contacts that can result in transmission. In this paper we use an approach similar to the approaches of Andersson (Ann Appl Probab 8(4):1331–1349, 1998) and Newman (Phys Rev E 66:16128, 2002) to study not only the expected values of final sizes of small outbreaks, but also their variability. Using these first two moments, a probability interval for the outbreak size is suggested based on Chebyshev’s inequality. We examine its utility in results from simulated small outbreaks evolving in simulated random networks. We also revisit and modify two related results from Newman (Phys Rev E 66:16128, 2002) to take into account the important fact that the infectious period of an infected individual is the same from the perspective of all the individual’s contacts. The theory developed in this area can be extended to describe other “infectious” processes such as the spread of rumors, ideas, information, and habits. Personalized recommendation of learning material using sequential pattern mining and attribute based collaborative filtering Material recommender system is a significant part of e-learning systems for personalization and recommendation of appropriate materials to learners. However, in the existing recommendation algorithms, dynamic interests and multi-preference of learners and multidimensional-attribute of materials are not fully considered simultaneously. Moreover, these algorithms cannot effectively use the learner’s historical sequential patterns of material accessing in recommendation. For addressing these problems and improving the accuracy and quality of recommendation, a new material recommender system framework based on sequential pattern mining and multidimensional attribute-based collaborative filtering (CF) is proposed. In the sequential pattern based approach, modified Apriori and PrefixSpan algorithms are implemented to discover latent patterns in accessing of materials and use them for recommendation. Leaner Preference Tree (LPT) is introduced to take into account multidimensional-attribute of materials, and learners’ rating and model dynamic and multi-preference of learners in the multidimensional attribute-based CF approach. Finally, the recommendation results of two approaches are combined using cascade, weighted and mixed methods. The proposed method outperforms the previous algorithms on the classification accuracy measures and the learner’s real learning preference can be satisfied accurately according to the real-time up dated contextual information. A new species of parasitic copepod Nothobomolochus and redescription of Orbitacolax hapalogenyos (Yamaguti and Yamasu, 1959) (Cyclopoida: Bomolochidae) off Iraq A new species of bomolochid copepod Nothobomolochus ilhoikimi sp. n., (Cyclopoida), is described based on adult females collected from the gills of hilsa shad Tenualosa ilisha (Hamilton) (Actinopterygii, Clupeidae) captured in waters off Iraq. The new species differs from its congeners by having the following combination of characters in the adult female: 1) anal somite not spinulate; 2) paragnath blunt and robust; 3) maxilla with slender proximal segment and distal segment with 2 accessory processes terminally; 4) the distal exopodal segment of leg 1 with 3 small spines; and 5) the terminal endopodal segment of leg 4 carrying one long and one short spine. It closely resembles N. triceros (Bassett-Smith, 1898) but prominently differs in above features and also in host specificity. In addition, another bomolochid Orbitacolax hapalogenyos (Yamaguti and Yamasu, 1959) is redescribed based on material collected from Japanese threadfin bream Nemipterus japonicus (Bloch) (Perciformes, Nemipteridae) captured in waters off Iraq. Two species clusters, the hapalogenyos and the analogus groups are recognized in this genus. Open evaluation of sentiment-analysis systems based on the material of the Russian language This paper describes the experience from carrying out open evaluation of the methods for the sentiment analysis in Russian based on the ROMIP seminar in 2011–2012. Several training collections, which are now in free access, have been created during the conduction of the track. This paper reviews the current state of the art in processing subjective texts in Russian and describes the major tasks and characteristics of collections, as well as quality-assessment measures. Research and application of role theory in ocean carbon cycle ontology construction Many researchers have studied the ocean carbon cycle model trying to regulate the level of CO2 in atmosphere from viewpoint of quantification. Unlike other researches, this paper analyzes the conversion process of carbon element in the ocean from the qualitative viewpoint. There are many complex roles in the ocean carbon cycle, and it is hard to represent the case that an entity plays different role in different environment. An ontology technology Hozo role theory developed by Osaka University Mizoguchi Laboratory is proposed as a solution. The basic concepts and representation mode of Hozo role theory is introduced. The conversion process of ocean carbon cycle is abstracted and an ontology model using Hozo role theory is proposed. Instead of comprehensive common ontology construction method, we propose our own ontology development steps. Then an ontology about ocean carbon cycle is built in order to describe and share the basic knowledge of ocean carbon cycle. A knowledge base of material circulation is proposed based on the ontology. Its construction framework is described and some knowledge base query examples are also illustrated. Conclusions show that the role theory can effectively solve the problem of multirole description in ocean carbon cycle, and knowledge reasoning based on ontology is also effective. The genus Rhadinorhynchus (Acanthocephala: Rhadinorhynchidae) from marine fish in Australia with the description of four new species Species of Rhadinorhynchus, collected from Australian waters were examined. Specimens of Rhadinorhynchus from Scorpis aequipinnis, Girella tricuspidata, Johnius australis and Grammatobothus polyophthalmus could not be identified further. New host and locality records are reported for R. bicircumspinus found in Trachurus declivis and Rexea solandri from the east coast of Tasmania; R. carangis found in Trachinotus bailonii and T. copperingi from Queensland and Western Australian coasts; R. polynemi from Queensland; R. seriolae found in Seriola lalandi from the east coast of Australia. An immature female specimen of R. johnstoni provided no additional data on the species. Rhadinorhynchus biformis sp. nov., described from Pelates quadrilineatus and a trumpeter from Moreton Bay, Queensland differs from all its congeners in the pattern of the trunk spines, a single field of numerous small spines ventro-laterally, overlapping with irregular rows and circles of larger spines extending posteriorly. Rhadinorhynchus pichelinae sp. nov. described from Upeneichthys vlamingi from Point Peron, Western Australia differs from all its congeners in having proboscis armature of 10 longitudinal rows of 24–28, usually 26–27 hooks up to 87 long and a single field of 21–24 irregular circles of spines on the anterior trunk, with the posterior circles incomplete dorsally. Rhadinorhynchus polydactyli sp. nov. described from Polydactylus sp. from Moreton Bay is differentiated from all congenerics by the elongated neck of the females and having a proboscis armature of up to 34 hooks in 10 longitudinal rows. Rhadinorhynchus pomatomi sp. nov. found in Pomotomus saltrix differs from its most similar congeners, those without dorsal trunk spines, in having a proboscis armature of 12–15 rows of 20–22 hooks up to 73.5–80.5 long. Rhadinorhynchus bicircumspinus, R. biformis, R. pichelinae, R. polydactyli and R. pomatomi are known only from Australian waters while R. carangis and R. seriolae are also known from Japanese waters, R. johnstoni from the western Pacific and R. polynemi from the Indian coast. Correcting Students’ Misconceptions about Automobile Braking Distances and Video Analysis Using Interactive Program Tracker 
The present paper informs about an analysis of students’ conceptions about car braking distances and also presents one of the novel methods of learning: an interactive computer program Tracker that we used to analyse the process of braking of a car. The analysis of the students’ conceptions about car braking distances consisted in obtaining their estimates of these quantities before and after watching a video recording of a car braking from various initial speeds to a complete stop and subsequent application of mathematical statistics to the obtained sets of students’ answers. The results revealed that the difference between the value of the car braking distance estimated before watching the video and the real value of this distance was not caused by a random error but by a systematic error which was due to the incorrect students’ conceptions about the car braking process. Watching the video significantly improved the students’ estimates of the car braking distance, and we show that in this case, the difference between the estimated value and the real value of the car braking distance was due only to a random error, i.e. the students’ conceptions about the car braking process were corrected. Some of the students subsequently performed video analysis of the braking processes of cars of various brands and under various conditions by means of Tracker that gave them exact knowledge of the physical quantities, which characterize a motor vehicle braking. Interviewing some of these students brought very positive reactions to this novel method of learning. Gonad-infecting species of Philometra (Nematoda: Philometridae) from groupers Epinephelus spp. (Osteichthyes: Serranidae) in the Bay of Bengal, India Based on light and scanning electron microscopical studies, two new and one specifically not identified gonad-infecting species of Philometra Costa, 1845 (Nematoda: Philometridae) are described from the ovary of marine fishes of the genus Epinephelus Bloch (Serranidae, Perciformes) in the Bay of Bengal, off the eastern coast of India: P. indica sp. nov. (male and females) from the honeycomb grouper E. merra Bloch, P. tropica sp. nov. (males and females) from the duskytail grouper E. bleekeri (Vaillant) and Philometra sp. (only females) from the cloudy grouper E. erythrurus (Valenciennes). Philometra indica is mainly characterized by the length of spicules 192–195 μm and the gubernaculum 84 μm, the distal tip of the gubernaculum without a dorsal protuberance, and by the presence of five pairs of caudal papillae. Philometra tropica is mainly characterized by the spicules conspicuously ventrally distended at their posterior halves, the distal tip of the gubernaculum with a dorsal protuberance, and the presence of three pairs of caudal papillae. Organizational and knowledge management related antecedents of knowledge use: the moderating effect of ambiguity tolerance To leverage their knowledge resources, many organizations deploy knowledge management systems (KMS), which contain at their core a knowledge repository. Successful use of the knowledge/repository depends largely on knowledge workers who must contribute to the knowledge base as well as use those knowledge objects. We develop and validate an empirical model that explains mechanisms required to reduce knowledge gaps in a firm or business unit, through knowledge contribution and use or reuse. Using the theory of planned behavior and its derivative the technology acceptance model, we find that a feature rich user friendly KMS combined with extrinsic rewards (or incentives) and knowledge self-efficacy are critical to KM success. Tolerance of ambiguity (a personal trait) is a key influence in the causal relationship between incentives and knowledge gaps as well as knowledge self-efficacy and knowledge gaps. The main findings of this study are (1) for ambiguity intolerant individuals, incentives and self-efficacy are as important as the KMS as motivators for knowledge sharing and use, (2) for this group, it is necessary to stress the importance of KM as a means of social persuasion in building knowledge self-efficacy, (3) for the ambiguity tolerant, incentives are not required, and self efficacy is self-determined i.e., KM champions are not required to highlight the importance of KM; in fact the technology (KMS) is all important, a finding that negates conventional wisdom that technology is merely an enabler. In summary, a one-size fits all mindset is not effective, a firm must carefully consider the ambiguity tolerance levels of employees before forging ahead with KM efforts. This becomes all the more important to practitioners because of the recently highlighted differences in ambiguity tolerance between “Millennials” and” Generation Xers”. In addition to theory testing in KM, this research also informs KM practice. New localities of rare species Kobayasiella okadae (Skvortzov) Lange-Bert. and K. tintinnus Buczkó, Wojtal & Jahn in Europe — morphological and ecological characteristics The aim of the present work conducted in the area of Międzyrzeki Strict Nature Reserve in the Roztocze National Park was to show new sites of rare and species new to Poland from the Kobayasiella genus (K. okadae (Skvortzov) Lange-Bert., K. tintinnus Buczkó, Wojtal & Jahn) with regard to morphological and ecological characteristics. Chemical parameters show that investigated habitats are poor and oligotrophic with a low content of chlorides, sulfates and nitrates. K. okadae, K. subtilissima (Cleve) Lange-Bert. and K. tintinnus were found in the studied area. The authors suggest the use of synonym Navicula hoeflerii Cholnoky for the Kobayasiella okadae. LM and SEM images were used in the analysis of the material.