Solving partial differential equations using ILLIAC IV The solution of the Benard-Rayleigh convection problem using ILLIAC IV is reviewed and comments about solving partial differential equations using this computer are made. This includes a brief look at possible uses of parallelism in designing arithmetic logic units, at the Institute for Advanced Computations, at the ARPA communications network and at the ILLIAC IV. An explicit solution of the prognostic convection equations is considered and the use of iterative and direct methods for solving the Poisson streamfunction equation discussed. Storage considerations are emphasized. Closing remarks on algorithmic parallelism, others using ILLIAC and I-O and programming language considerations for ILLIAC are included. Miracle a hierarchical data acquisition system for laboratory automation New advances in laboratory instrumentation have given scientists a new dimension to their research, but analysis and interpretation of the data generated by these instruments has increased in difficulty to the point where it has often become a limiting factor in their effective use. It was logical to turn to computer processing of these data to relieve the scientist of this burdensome task. Often the initial approach has been to consider the use of existing digital batch process computing. However, the turnaround problems of overburdened centers can be inhibiting; but even discounting this feature, analog-type data (unless analog processing is employed) must be transformed to digital information. Frequently this is in the form of punched cards. This approach fails to take advantage of interfacing the instrument directly to the computer and thus precludes on-line data acquisition, interactive control, or real-time data processing. Because of the batch and digital orientation of most large computing centers, the probability for linking instruments on-line with special interfacing and real-time demands at these centers, is low indeed, although it has been successfully accomplished at the University of Alabama under Dr. Josiah Macy and at the University of Utah under Dr. Homer Warner among other institutions.