The validation of specific status of the sakhalin sturgeon Acipenser mikadoi (Acipenseridae) in the light of recent genetic and morphological data The taxonomic relations between the Sakhalin and North American green sturgeons were re-evaluated based on afresh conducted comparative morphological analysis of both sturgeons, as well as a renovation of literature cytogenetic, molecular and morphological data. The comparative analysis of different data sets demonstrates the validity of the Sakhalin sturgeon A. mikadoi which differs from the North American green sturgeon A. medirostris in the karyotype structure, the nuclear DNA content value, and several morphological characters. The key for their identification is presented. Learning to succeed in a flat world: information and communication technologies for a new generation of business students This article investigates the relationship of learning and its infrastructure using Web 2.0 technologies to facilitate the acquisition of skills needed to succeed in a global economy. We explore the learning phenomenon as a way to bring forward a process of continuous improvement supported by social software. We use a commonly accepted definition of learning to evaluate different learning theories, since it seems that the definition of learning itself is not a major source of difference between learning theories. Their differences are over issues of interpretation, not over definition. The theories reviewed are used in the design of a framework to assess the infrastructure against expectations of skill proficiency using Web 2.0 tools, i.e., wikis, blogs, social bookmarking, tagging, etc. which must emerge as a result of registering in an introduction to business information and communication technologies (ICT) course in a Canadian university. In this course, we use Friedman’s (The world is flat: a brief history of the twenty-first century release 3.0, Picador, New York, 2007) thesis that the “world is flat” to discuss issues of globalization and the role of ICT. Students registered in the course are usually familiar with some of the tools we introduce and use in the course. The students are members of Facebook or MySpace, regularly check YouTube, and use Wikipedia in their studies. These tools are the tools to socialize. In our course, we broaden the students’ horizons and explore the potential business benefits of such tools and empower the students to use Web 2.0 technologies within a business context. Gene cloning and characterization of a novel esterase from activated sludge metagenome A metagenomic library was prepared using pCC2FOS vector containing about 3.0 Gbp of community DNA from the microbial assemblage of activated sludge. Screening of a part of the un-amplified library resulted in the finding of 1 unique lipolytic clone capable of hydrolyzing tributyrin, in which an esterase gene was identified. This esterase/lipase gene consists of 834 bp and encodes a polypeptide (designated EstAS) of 277 amino acid residuals with a molecular mass of 31 kDa. Sequence analysis indicated that it showed 33% and 31% amino acid identity to esterase/lipase from Gemmata obscuriglobus UQM 2246 (ZP_02733109) and Yarrowia lipolytica CLIB122 (XP_504639), respectively; and several conserved regions were identified, including the putative active site, HSMGG, a catalytic triad (Ser92, His125 and Asp216) and a LHYFRG conserved motif. The EstAS was overexpressed, purified and shown to hydrolyse p-nitrophenyl (NP) esters of fatty acids with short chain lengths (≤ C8). This EstAS had optimal temperature and pH at 35°C and 9.0, respectively, by hydrolysis of p-NP hexanoate. It also exhibited the same level of stability over wide temperature and pH ranges and in the presence of metal ions or detergents. The high level of stability of esterase EstAS with its unique substrate specificities make itself highly useful for biotechnological applications. Distributed Cooperative Transmission with Unreliable and Untrustworthy Relay Channels Cooperative transmission is an emerging wireless communication technique that improves wireless channel capacity through multiuser cooperation in the physical layer. It is expected to have a profound impact on network performance and design. However, cooperative transmission can be vulnerable to selfish behaviors and malicious attacks, especially in its current design. In this paper, we investigate two fundamental questions Does cooperative transmission provide new opportunities to malicious parties to undermine the network performance? Are there new ways to defend wireless networks through physical layer cooperation? Particularly, we study the security vulnerabilities of the traditional cooperative transmission schemes and show the performance degradation resulting from the misbehaviors of relay nodes. Then, we design a trust-assisted cooperative scheme that can detect attacks and has self-healing capability. The proposed scheme performs much better than the traditional schemes when there are malicious/selfish nodes or severe channel estimation errors. Finally, we investigate the advantage of cooperative transmission in terms of defending against jamming attacks. A reduction in link outage probability is achieved. An efficient approach to comment spam identification This paper proposes a novel approach to comment spam identification based on content analysis. Three main features including the number of links, content repetitiveness, and text similarity are used for comment spam identification. In practice, content repetitiveness is determined by the length and frequency of the longest common substring. Furthermore, text similarity is calculated using vector space model. The precisions of preliminary experiments on comment spam identification conducted on Chinese and English are as high as 93% and 82% respectively. The results show the validity and language independency of this approach. Compared with conventional spam filtering approaches, our method requires no training, no rule sets and no link relationships. The proposed approach can also deal with new comments as well as existing comments. SUPPORT Tools for evidence-informed health Policymaking (STP) 15: Engaging the public in evidence-informed policymaking This article is part of a series written for people responsible for making decisions about health policies and programmes and for those who support these decision makers.In this article, we address strategies to inform and engage the public in policy development and implementation. The importance of engaging the public (both patients and citizens) at all levels of health systems is widely recognised. They are the ultimate recipients of the desirable and undesirable impacts of public policies, and many governments and organisations have acknowledged the value of engaging them in evidence-informed policy development. The potential benefits of doing this include the establishment of policies that include their ideas and address their concerns, the improved implementation of policies, improved health services, and better health. Public engagement can also be viewed as a goal in itself by encouraging participative democracy, public accountability and transparency. We suggest three questions that can be considered with regard to public participation strategies. These are: 1. What strategies can be used when working with the mass media to inform the public about policy development and implementation? 2. What strategies can be used when working with civil society groups to inform and engage them in policy development and implementation? 3. What methods can be used to involve consumers in policy development and implementation? Identification of novel aspartic proteases from Strongyloides ratti and characterisation of their evolutionary relationships, stage-specific expression and molecular structure BackgroundAspartic proteases are known to play an important role in the biology of nematode parasitism. This role is best characterised in blood-feeding nematodes, where they digest haemoglobin, but they are also likely to play important roles in the biology of nematode parasites that do not feed on blood. In the present work, we investigate the evolution and expression of aspartic proteases in Strongyloides ratti, which permits a unique comparison between parasitic and free-living adult forms within its life-cycle.ResultsWe identified eight transcribed aspartic protease sequences and a further two genomic sequences and compared these to homologues in Caenorhabditis elegans and other nematode species. Phylogenetic analysis demonstrated a complex pattern of gene evolution, such that some S. ratti sequences had a one-to-one correspondence with orthologues of C. elegans but that lineage-specific expansions have occurred for other aspartic proteases in these two nematodes. These gene duplication events may have contributed to the adaptation of the two species to their different lifestyles. Among the set of S. ratti aspartic proteases were two closely-related isoforms that showed differential expression during different life stages: ASP-2A is highly expressed in parasitic females while ASP-2B is predominantly found in free-living adults. Molecular modelling of the ASP-2 isoforms reveals that their substrate specificities are likely to be very similar, but that ASP-2B is more electrostatically negative over its entire molecular surface than ASP-2A. This characteristic may be related to different pH values of the environments in which these two isoforms operate.ConclusionsWe have demonstrated that S. ratti provides a powerful model to explore the genetic adaptations associated with parasitic versus free-living life-styles. We have discovered gene duplication of aspartic protease genes in Strongyloides and identified a pair of paralogues differentially expressed in either the parasitic or the free-living phase of the nematode life-cycle, consistent with an adaptive role for aspartic proteases in the evolution of nematode parasitism. Robustness of centrality measures under uncertainty: Examining the role of network topology This study investigates the topological form of a network and its impact on the uncertainty entrenched in descriptive measures computed from observed social network data, given ubiquitous data-error. We investigate what influence a network’s topology, in conjunction with the type and amount of error, has on the ability of a measure, derived from observed data, to correctly approximate the same of the ground-truth network. By way of a controlled experiment, we reveal the differing effect that observation error has on measures of centrality and local clustering across several network topologies: uniform random, small-world, core-periphery, scale-free, and cellular. Beyond what is already known about the impact of data uncertainty, we found that the topology of a social network is, indeed, germane to the accuracy of these measures. In particular, our experiments show that the accuracy of identifying the prestigious, or key, actors in a network—according observed data—is considerably predisposed by the topology of the ground-truth network. Exploring biological network structure with clustered random networks BackgroundComplex biological systems are often modeled as networks of interacting units. Networks of biochemical interactions among proteins, epidemiological contacts among hosts, and trophic interactions in ecosystems, to name a few, have provided useful insights into the dynamical processes that shape and traverse these systems. The degrees of nodes (numbers of interactions) and the extent of clustering (the tendency for a set of three nodes to be interconnected) are two of many well-studied network properties that can fundamentally shape a system. Disentangling the interdependent effects of the various network properties, however, can be difficult. Simple network models can help us quantify the structure of empirical networked systems and understand the impact of various topological properties on dynamics.ResultsHere we develop and implement a new Markov chain simulation algorithm to generate simple, connected random graphs that have a specified degree sequence and level of clustering, but are random in all other respects. The implementation of the algorithm (ClustRNet: Clustered Random Networks) provides the generation of random graphs optimized according to a local or global, and relative or absolute measure of clustering. We compare our algorithm to other similar methods and show that ours more successfully produces desired network characteristics.Finding appropriate null models is crucial in bioinformatics research, and is often difficult, particularly for biological networks. As we demonstrate, the networks generated by ClustRNet can serve as random controls when investigating the impacts of complex network features beyond the byproduct of degree and clustering in empirical networks.ConclusionClustRNet generates ensembles of graphs of specified edge structure and clustering. These graphs allow for systematic study of the impacts of connectivity and redundancies on network function and dynamics. This process is a key step in unraveling the functional consequences of the structural properties of empirical biological systems and uncovering the mechanisms that drive these systems. Comparative study of protein-protein interaction observed in PolyGalacturonase-Inhibiting Proteins from Phaseolus vulgaris and Glycine max and PolyGalacturonase from Fusarium moniliforme BackgroundThe PolyGalacturonase-Inhibiting Proteins (PGIP) of plant cell wall limit the invasion of phytopathogenic organisms by interacting with the enzyme PolyGalacturonase (PG) they secrete to degrade pectin present in the cell walls. PGIPs from different or same plant differ in their inhibitory activity towards the same PG. PGIP2 from Phaseolus vulgaris (Pv) inhibits the PG from Fusarium moniliforme (Fm) although PGIP1, another member of the multigene family from the same plant sharing 99% sequence similarity, cannot. Interestingly, PGIP3 from Glycine max (Gm) which is a homologue of PGIP2 is capable of inhibiting the same PG although the extent of similarity is lower and is 88%. It therefore appears that subtle changes in the sequence of plant PGIPs give rise to different specificity for inhibiting pathogenic PGs and there exists no direct dependence of function on the extent of sequence similarity.ResultsStructural information for any PGIP-PG complex being absent, we resorted to molecular modelling to gain insight into the mechanism of recognition and discrimination of PGs by PGIPs. We have built homology models of Pv PGIP1 and Gm PGIP3 using the crystal structure of Pv PGIP2 (1OGQ) as template. These PGIPs were then docked individually to Fm PG to elucidate the characteristics of their interactions. The mode of binding for Pv PGIP1 to Fm PG considerably differs from the mode observed for Pv PGIP2-Fm PG complex, regardless of the high sequence similarity the two PGIPs share. Both Pv PGIP2 and Gm PGIP3 despite being relatively less similar, interact with residues of Fm PG that are known from mutational studies to constitute the active site of the enzyme. Pv PGIP1 tends to interact with residues not located at the active site of Fm PG. Looking into the electrostatic potential surface for individual PGIPs, it was evident that a portion of the interacting surface for Pv PGIP1 differs from the corresponding region of Pv PGIP2 or Gm PGIP3.Conclusionvan der Waals and eletrostatic interactions play an active role in PGIPs for proper recognition and discrimination of PGs. Docking studies reveal that Pv PGIP2 and Gm PGIP3 interact with the residues constituting the active site of Fm PG with implications that the proteins bind/block Fm PG at its active site and thereby inhibit the enzyme. Bioclipse 2: A scriptable integration platform for the life sciences BackgroundContemporary biological research integrates neighboring scientific domains to answer complex questions in fields such as systems biology and drug discovery. This calls for tools that are intuitive to use, yet flexible to adapt to new tasks.ResultsBioclipse is a free, open source workbench with advanced features for the life sciences. Version 2.0 constitutes a complete rewrite of Bioclipse, and delivers a stable, scalable integration platform for developers and an intuitive workbench for end users. All functionality is available both from the graphical user interface and from a built-in novel domain-specific language, supporting the scientist in interdisciplinary research and reproducible analyses through advanced visualization of the inputs and the results. New components for Bioclipse 2 include a rewritten editor for chemical structures, a table for multiple molecules that supports gigabyte-sized files, as well as a graphical editor for sequences and alignments.ConclusionBioclipse 2 is equipped with advanced tools required to carry out complex analysis in the fields of bio- and cheminformatics. Developed as a Rich Client based on Eclipse, Bioclipse 2 leverages on today's powerful desktop computers for providing a responsive user interface, but also takes full advantage of the Web and networked (Web/Cloud) services for more demanding calculations or retrieval of data. The fact that Bioclipse 2 is based on an advanced and widely used service platform ensures wide extensibility, making it easy to add new algorithms, visualizations, as well as scripting commands. The intuitive tools for end users and the extensible architecture make Bioclipse 2 ideal for interdisciplinary and integrative research.Bioclipse 2 is released under the Eclipse Public License (EPL), a flexible open source license that allows additional plugins to be of any license. Bioclipse 2 is implemented in Java and supported on all major platforms; Source code and binaries are freely available at http://www.bioclipse.net. PDbase: a database of Parkinson's Disease-related genes and genetic variation using substantia nigra ESTs BackgroundParkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most common neurodegenerative disorders, clinically characterized by impaired motor function. Since the etiology of PD is diverse and complex, many researchers have created PD-related research resources. However, resources for brain and PD studies are still lacking. Therefore, we have constructed a database of PD-related gene and genetic variations using the substantia nigra (SN) in PD and normal tissues. In addition, we integrated PD-related information from several resources.ResultsWe collected the 6,130 SN expressed sequenced tags (ESTs) from brain SN normal tissues and PD patients SN tissues using full-cDNA library and normalized cDNA library construction methods from our previous study. The SN ESTs were clustered in 2,951 unigene clusters and assigned in 2,678 genes. We then found up-regulated 57 genes and down-regulated 48 genes by comparing normal and PD SN ESTs frequencies with over 0.9 cut-off probability of differential expression based on the Audic and Claverie method. In addition, we integrated disease-related information from public resources. To examine the characteristics of these PD-related genes, we analyzed alternative splicing events, single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers located in the gene regions, repeat elements, gene regulation elements, and pathways and protein-protein interaction networks.ConclusionWe constructed the PDbase database to capture the PD-related gene, genetic variation, and functional elements. This database contains 2,698 PD-related genes through ESTs discovered from human normal and PD patients SN tissues, and through integrating several public resources. PDbase provides the mitochondrion proteins, microRNA gene regulation elements, single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) markers within PD-related gene structures, repeat elements, and pathways and networks with protein-protein interaction information. The PDbase information can aid in understanding the causation of PD. It is available at http://bioportal.kobic.re.kr/PDbase/. Supplementary data is available at http://bioportal.kobic.re.kr/PDbase/suppl.jsp Web-Traveler Policies for Images on Social Networks Images are one of the most popular type of contents shared on these sites. One of the most popular types of contents shared on these sites is image. Most of these networks offer some rudimentary forms of access controls such as allowing the users to choose who can view their profiles or the images uploaded by them. These controls however apply only in the perimeter of the users’ direct control such as desktops, profiles etc. Users have no control over their content once it is downloaded by others. In order to enable a user to truly maintain control over his content, new access control mechanisms must be designed so as to enable users to control their content even when managed by others. Towards fulfilling this gap, in this paper we propose the concept of “web-traveler policies”. Web-traveler policies allow the user to specify who can view, upload or download a given image within a social network. The unique, innovative feature of web-traveler policies is that they travel with the image, as long as it is hosted on the given social networking site. Additionally, we explore the possibility of extending these controls across different sites, by using the concept of mashups. In the paper we prove the feasibility of this approach, by implementing a working prototype of our approach on a real open source social network platform. We test the performance and scalability of such architecture under heavy user loads and also its resilience towards naïve attacks. This work is a first innovative step toward scalable systems for providing each user with a centralized system for his/her own content’s protection all over the web. Adaptive systems in the era of the semantic and social web, a survey In this paper we provide a classification of adaptive systems with respect to the kind of semantic technology they exploit to accomplish or improve specific adaptation and user modeling tasks. This classification is based on a distinction between strong semantic techniques and weak semantic techniques. The former are techniques based on the Semantic Web, while the latter regard technologies that, in different ways, annotate resources, enriching their meaning. This second category includes, in particular, Web 2.0 social annotations and mixed approaches between social annotations and Semantic Web techniques. While the impact of the Semantic Web on adaptive systems has been discussed in several survey papers, the potential of weak semantic technologies has, so far, received little attention. The aim of this analysis is to fill this gap. Therefore, we will discuss contributions and limits of both approaches, but we will focus special attention on weak semantic adaptive systems. Sharing private data through personalized search A method for sharing private data through personalized searches is described. This method enables users to retrieve access-controlled private data as well as publicly available data by submitting a single query to a conventional search engine. Seamless integration of the method into current search services through a prototype on the Mozilla Firefox web browser, without any changes to existing search functions, such as crawling, indexing, and matching, is also described. Evaluations showed that the additional storage requirement is only 10% and that the system implementing the method responds in 10 s with 1,000 dummy results for anonymization. Semantic Web enabled digital repositories Digital repositories and digital libraries are today among the most common tools for managing and disseminating digital object collections of cultural, educational, and other kinds of content over the Web. However, it is often the case that descriptive information about these assets, known as metadata, are usually semi-structured from a semantics point of view; implicit knowledge about this content may exist that cannot always be represented in metadata implementations and thus is not always discoverable. To this end, in this article we propose a method and a practical implementation that could allow traditional metadata-intensive repositories to benefit from Semantic Web ideas and techniques. In particular, we show how, starting with a semi-structured knowledge model (like the one offered by DSpace), we can end up with inference-based knowledge discovery, retrieval, and navigation among the repository contents. Our methodology and results are applied on the University of Patras institutional repository. The resulting prototype is also available as a plug-in, although it can fit, in principle, any other kind of digital repository. Re-examining cognition during student-centered, Web-based learning During student-centered learning, the individual assumes responsibility for determining learning goals, monitoring progress toward meeting goals, adjusting or adapting approaches as warranted, and determining when individual goals have been adequately addressed. This can be particularly challenging while learning from the World-Wide Web, where billions of resources address a variety of needs. The individual must identify which tools and resources are available and appropriate, how to assemble them, and how to manage and support their unique learning goals. We analyze the applicability of cognitive principles to learning from Web-based multimedia, review and critically analyze issues related to cognition and student-centered learning from Web-based multimedia, and describe implications for design research and practice. Dependency management for digital preservation using semantic web technologies The preservation of digital objects is a topic of prominent importance for archives and digital libraries. In this article, we focus on the problem of preserving the intelligibility of digital objects. We formalize the problem in terms of dependencies and specify a number of basic intelligibility-related tasks. In parallel, we introduce a preservation scenario as a means for clarifying the pros and cons of various representation and modeling languages that are used for the problem at hand, which reveals the benefits of adopting Semantic Web (SW) languages as a representation framework. To this end, we propose a minimal core ontology for representing intelligibility-related dependencies along with methodological hints for extending it. Finally, we report empirical and experimental results from applying the proposed approach on real data sets. It is worth mentioning that this approach can be used not only on SW-based repositories or archives, but also on those that are based on conventional approaches and languages (like EAST, DEDSL, XFDU/SAFE). A theory of data-intensive software services We introduce Abstract State Services (AS2s) as an abstraction of data-intensive services that can be made available for use by other systems, e.g. via the web. An AS2 combines a hidden database layer with an operation-equipped view layer, and can be anything from a simple function to a full-fledged Web Information System or a Data Warehouse. We adopt the fundamental approach of Abstract State Machines to model AS2s and show that AS2s capture the fundamentals of approaches such as media types, meme media, SOA and web services excluding presentation issues. Then we show how tailored services can be extracted from available AS2s, combined with other AS2 components and personalised to user preferences. Quantifying privacy in terms of entropy for context aware services In this paper, we address the issue of privacy protection in context aware services, through the use of entropy as a means of measuring the capability of locating a user’s whereabouts and identifying personal selections. We present a framework for calculating levels of abstraction in location and personal preferences reporting in queries to a context aware services server. Finally, we propose a methodology for determining the levels of abstraction in location and preferences that should be applied in user data reporting during service provision, according to her personal privacy settings. Using Heterogeneity to Enhance Random Walk-based Queries  It is a well-known property of random walks that nodes with higher degree are visited more frequently. Based on this property, we propose the use of cluster-heads (high-degree nodes) together with a simple push-pull mechanism to enhance the performance of random walk-based querying: events are pushed towards high-degree nodes (cluster-heads) and pulled from the cluster-heads by a random-walk originated at the sink. Following this simple mechanism, we show that having even a small percentage of cluster-heads (degree-heterogeneity) can provide significant improvements in query performance. For linear topologies, we use connections between random walks and electrical resistances to prove that placing uniformly a fraction of 4/5k cluster-heads (where 2k is the degree of each cluster-head), can reduce querying costs from Θ(n2) to Θ(n2/k2), an improvement of Θ(k2). For more realistic two-dimensional topologies, we use Markov chain analysis and simulations to show a similar trend—using about 10% of the nodes as cluster-heads provides a query cost improvement between 30% and 70% depending on the coverage of the high-degree nodes. Scaffolding preservice teachers’ WebQuest design: a qualitative study This study examined how participating preservice teachers reported their perceptions and use of different scaffolds provided to support their WebQuest design. Sixteen preservice teachers participated in a succession of course activities designed to guide WebQuest design and development. Results indicated that while participants followed, adapted, and combined many scaffolds as they designed their WebQuests, they discounted other design supports as redundant, unnecessary, or too time-consuming. Implications for research and practice are described. Seven Interventions with the Flatlands: Archaeology and its Modes of Engagement Contributions from the WAC-6 Session, “Experience, Modes of Engagement, Archaeology” This volume is the product of the WAC-6 session, “Experience, Modes of Engagement, Archaeology”, which was part of the conference theme, “Archaeological Theory? Legacies, Burdens, and Futures.” The following contributions embrace emergent, analog, and paper-based media and move on from the worn observation that these media can be important tools towards active interventions that demonstrate how they affect practice and theory when employed critically and reflexively. This introduction orients the focus of the volume through a discussion and case study that place theoretical emphasis on experiences documented through multimedia. Important questions are raised throughout concerning: archaeology and digital representation, the creation and destruction of archaeological information, authenticity in representations, the construction of archaeologists’ identities, and the non-linearity of archaeological practice. The studies in this volume approach archaeology through the lens of experience and multimedia engagement. In doing so they blend or altogether question the traditionally divided realms of theory and practice. Consequently, these contributions work with the interrelated agendas of the present between media ecologies and archaeology, and the changing pace and character of archaeology in the 21st century.RésuméCe volume est le fruit de la session WAC-6, «Expérience, Modes d’Engagement, Archéologie», qui faisait partie du thème de conférence, «Théorie Archéologique? Héritages, Fardeaux et Avenirs.» Les articles suivants comprennent les médias émergents, analogiques, sur supports papier et progressent depuis l’observation désuète que ces médias peuvent être des outils importants vers des interventions actives qui démontrent comment ils peuvent affecter la pratique et la théorie lorsqu’ils sont utilisés d’une manière critique et réfléchie. Cette introduction oriente l’objet du volume dans une discussion et une étude de cas qui placent l’accent théorique sur des expériences documentées grâce aux multimédias. D’importantes questions sont évoquées pour tout ce qui concerne : l’archéologie et la représentation numérique, la création et la destruction de l’information archéologique, l’authenticité des représentations, la construction des identités d’archéologues, ainsi que la non linéarité de la pratique archéologique. Dans ce volume les études abordent l’archéologie au travers de la lentille de l’expérience et de l’engagement multimédia. De cette manière elles mélangent, ou tout compte fait, interrogent le domaine traditionnellement divisé de la théorie et de la pratique. Par conséquent, ces articles fonctionnent avec les programmes interdépendants du moment entre les médias écologie et archéologie, et le changement de rythme et de caractère de l’archéologie au 21ieme siècle.ResumenEl presente volumen es producto de la sesión WAC-6 «Experiencia, formas de compromiso y arqueología», que forma parte de la conferencia sobre el tema « ¿Teoría arqueológica? Legados, cargas y futuros». Las siguientes aportaciones aprovechan los soportes emergentes, analógicos y basados en papel, y van más allá de la manida observación de que estos soportes pueden ser importantes herramientas para las intervenciones activas que demuestran cómo afectan a la práctica y a la teoría cuando se emplean de forma crítica y reflexiva. Esta introducción da paso a un enfoque del volumen a través de un debate y un estudio de caso que pone el énfasis teórico en experiencias documentadas mediante multimedia. Por doquier surgen cuestiones importantes relacionadas con la arqueología y la representación digital, la creación y la destrucción de la información arqueológica, la autenticidad en las representaciones, la construcción de las identidades arqueólogas y la no linearidad de la práctica arqueológica. Los estudios de este volumen abordan la arqueología desde la óptica de la experiencia y del compromiso multimedia. Con ello, mezclan o cuestionan los campos tradicionalmente divididos de la teoría y la práctica. En consecuencia, estas aportaciones funcionan con programas relacionados del presente entre la ecología mediática y la arqueología, y el ritmo y el carácter cambiante de la arqueología en el siglo XXI. CI-Miner: semantically enhancing scientific processes The realization of an international cyberinfrastructure of shared resources to overcome time and space limitations is challenging scientists to rethink how to document their processes. Many known scientific process requirements that would normally be considered impossible to implement a few years ago are close to becoming a reality for scientists, such as large scale integration and data reuse, data sharing across distinct scientific domains, comprehensive support for explaining process results, and full search capability for scientific products across domains. This article introduces the CI-Miner approach that can be used to aggregate knowledge about scientific processes and their products through the use of semantic annotations. The article shows how this aggregated knowledge is used to benefit scientists during the development of their research activities. The discussion is grounded on lessons learned through the use of CI-Miner to semantically annotate scientific processes in the areas of geo-sciences, environmental sciences and solar physics: A use case in the field of geo-science illustrates the CI-Miner approach in action. Structured P2P technologies for distributed command and control The utility of Peer-to-Peer (P2P) systems extends far beyond traditional file sharing. This paper provides an overview of how P2P systems are capable of providing robust command and control for Distributed Multi-Agent Systems (DMASs). Specifically, this article presents the evolution of P2P architectures to date by discussing supporting technologies and applicability of each generation of P2P systems. It provides a detailed survey of fundamental design approaches found in modern large-scale P2P systems highlighting design considerations for building and deploying scalable P2P applications. The survey includes unstructured P2P systems, content retrieval systems, communications structured P2P systems, flat structured P2P systems and finally Hierarchical Peer-to-Peer (HP2P) overlays. It concludes with a presentation of design tradeoffs and opportunities for future research into P2P overlay systems. Empowerment or repression? Opening up questions of identification and surveillance in Brazil through a case of ‘identity fraud’ A real but typical case of identity fraud is used to open up the complex web of identification systems in Brazil. It is argued that identification has two poles related to the nature of citizenship—repression and inclusion—and that reactions from citizens to new identification schemes can be attributed to how they view the purpose of the cards in these terms. In Brazil, a sense of inclusion and citizenship based on a fear of anonymity and exclusion predominates leading to widespread support amongst even critics of state activities. However, this may be undermined by the lack of state preparation for an information society, particularly the absence of meaningful data protection laws. Web-oriented GIS system for monitoring, conservation and law enforcement of the Brazilian Amazon A web GIS (WGIS) system for the Brazilian Amazon, named ImazonGeo and based on open source and public domain data, is presented. ImazonGeo was built following three principles. First, the system is based on Spatial Data Infrastructure architecture and web interface built using free software and public domain data. Second, we went beyond visualization of maps and spatial queries by providing information obtained with spatial analysis models. To do that, we designed a database that stores the results of previously defined spatial analyses and developed customized reports and query tools to facilitate fast access of information by end-users. Finally, the system is application-oriented in the areas of forest monitoring, conservation and forest law enforcement, meaning that it aims to contribute to support the protection of Brazilian Amazon forests. We illustrate these principles by presenting ImazonGeo’s technology, architecture, content and tools. Moreover, we present two successful cases to demonstrate how the system is being used. We conclude the paper discussing the challenges and potential solutions to turning our WGIS-SDI system into an internet hub of geo-information about the Brazilian Amazon. Print Reference Sources about Evolution  Choosing Between Internet and Mail Survey Modes for Choice Experiment Surveys Considering Non-Market Goods In a choice experiment setup considering a non-market good, this paper adds to the literature on survey mode effects by providing evidence that internet surveys can be a viable alternative to traditional mail surveys when gathering feedback from a sample of respondents. The case study concerns preferences for protecting different types of landscape from road encroachment when building new motorways in Denmark. Two samples of respondents are surveyed—one by internet and one by mail. The performances of the two samples are compared over six different criteria; response rates, protest responses, demographics, preferences and WTP, estimation precision, and, finally, certainty in choice. Differences are observed for some of these criteria, implying that analysts should be aware that choosing internet over mail could be accompanied by a survey mode effect. However, the observed differences do not translate into significant differences in the unconditional WTP estimates. In most applied economic valuation studies of non-market goods, the main objective is in fact estimation of WTP. Hence, in the present case, the identified survey mode effects do not severely invalidate the applicability and continued use of the internet as a suitable means of collecting data for choice experiment economic valuation of non-market goods. Corporate Responsibilities in Internet-Enabled Social Networks As demonstrated by the popularity of social networking sites such as Facebook and Twitter, Internet-based social networks have become an important part of daily life, and many businesses are now involved in such networks either as service providers or as participants. Furthermore, inter-organizational networks are becoming an increasingly common feature of many industries, not only on the Internet. However, despite the growing importance of networks for businesses, there is little theoretical study on the social responsibilities of businesses in such networks, and how these responsibilities are affected by different types of networks. This article explores how social network analysis, which has been developed from studies of social networks of individuals, can be used to shed light on corporate responsibilities in social networks. Networks, Social Norms and Knowledge Sub-Networks Networks and the World Wide Web seem to provide an answer to efficiently creating and disseminating knowledge resources. Knowledge, however, is ambiguous in character, and contains both explicit (information) and tacit dimensions – the latter being difficult to value as well as to transfer. Participant identity, commitment and behaviour within the network also affect the sharing of knowledge. Hence, existing laws and norms (including property rights) which have been established on the basis of discrete transactions and monetary value-oriented exchange may not be adequate to deal with the whole spectrum of knowledge transfer. A model is needed to address transfer across a large heterogeneous network. We introduce the concept of sub-networks where tacit knowledge resides and argue that considering social norms underlying trust and other informal mechanisms provides a more suitable basis for understanding the exchange of tacit knowledge. Norm establishment is complicated by the fact that values differ across cultures; however, the social norms that underpin sub-networks can sustain knowledge transfer within them. The purpose of this conceptual article is to introduce the concept of sub-networks and to identify the sub-network/network relationship as an area in which it is necessary to look beyond property rights and raise the issue of norms. We believe that an analysis of the role of social norms in knowledge sub-networks and their interaction with global networks points to a key element in understanding networks and any emerging theory of network ethics in the twenty-first century. Behavior Analysis in the Era of Medicalization: The State of the Science and Recommendations for Practitioners Recent decades have witnessed an increase in biological explanations of common disorders such as depression and anxiety, a phenonmenon termed “medicalization” (Conrad, 2007). Behavior analysts may find it difficult to implement non-drug treatment with a populace that has become inundated with biological explanations and a preference for medication as the treatment of choice. Research frequently cited in support of medicalization includes studies of drug effectiveness, as well as family studies and studies of brain structure and function. Methodological and interpretation difficulties within those bodies of research are described and recommendations are made so that behavioral practitioners may function optimally within the culture of biological causation. Efficient processing of ordered XML twig pattern matching based on extended Dewey Finding all occurrences of a twig pattern is a core operation of extensible markup language (XML) query processing. Holistic twig join algorithms, which avoid a large number of intermediate results, represent the state-of-the-art algorithms. However, ordered XML twig join is mentioned rarely in the literature and previous algorithms developed in attempts to solve the problem of ordered twig pattern (OTP) matching have poor performance. In this paper, we first propose a novel children linked stacks encoding scheme to represent compactly the partial ordered twig join results. Based on this encoding scheme and extended Dewey, we design a novel holistic OTP matching algorithm, called OTJFast, which needs only to access the labels of the leaf query nodes. Furthermore, we propose a new algorithm, named OTJFaster, incorporating three effective optimization rules to avoid unnecessary computations. This works well on available indices (such as B+-tree), skipping useless elements. Thus, not only is disk access reduced greatly, but also many unnecessary computations are avoided. Finally, our extensive experiments over both real and synthetic datasets indicate that our algorithms are superior to previous approaches. Digenetic trematodes of the Brazilian flathead, Percophis brasiliensis Quoy et Gaimard, 1825 (Percophidae, Perciformes), from Argentinean and Uruguayan waters Based on the examination of 234 specimens of the Brazilian flathead, Percophis brasiliensis (Percophidae), caught in the Argentinean and Uruguayan Seas, the list of digenean species parasitizing P. brasiliensis is increased from 6 to 9, including the specific identification of two species previously reported at the generic level. The three news digenean records for P. brasiliensis are: Elytrophalloides oatesi, Parahemiurus merus and Aponurus laguncula, while that Ectenurus virgulus and Lecithocladium cristatum were identified to specific level. These reports showed the highest diversity of digeneans registered in fishes from the study region. The diversity of the digenean fauna of P. brasiliensis could be a consequence of the generalist food habits of this fish. Performance evaluation of a discovery and scheduling protocol for multihop ad hoc mobile grids Despite the many research efforts addressing the integration of mobile nodes into grids, only a few of them have considered the establishment of mobile grids over wireless ad hoc networks (hereafter,mobile ad hoc grids). Clearly, such grids need specialized resource discovery and scheduling mechanisms. To the best of our knowledge, though, the research on these mechanisms for mobile ad hoc grids is still preliminary. Besides, and more importantly, it has approached discovery and scheduling as separate mechanisms, which, we argue, is not suitable for mobile ad hoc grids. In this paper, we propose the integration of resource discovery and scheduling for mobile ad hoc grids into a single protocol called DICHOTOMY (Discovery and sCHeduling prOTOcol for MobilitY). This protocol allows computational tasks to be distributed appropriately in a mobile ad hoc grid, while mitigating the overhead of discovery messages exchanged among the nodes. Our experiments show that the protocol: (i) does proper scheduling, allowing an efficient load balancing among the nodes and helping with lowering the average completion time of tasks; (ii) keeps the discovery efficiency at acceptable levels in mobility scenarios and (iii) scales very well with respect to an increasing number of nodes, both in the total amount of energy savings due to packet transmissions and the distribution of such savings among the nodes. Social web and identity: a likely encounter The Web 2.0, with online social technologies such as social networking services, blogs, wikis, or microbloging, has brought the vision of the Internet as a social landscape in which people are engaged in a multitude of social activities. This editorial of the special issue ‘Social Web and Identity’ discusses the importance of identity in the context of the Social Web, introducing the different papers of this special issue and the different aspects associated to these online identities. The topics covered in this issue include how people define their identity in blogs and what is the articulation between online and offline identities in these systems. It also presents an article studying the privacy issues in online social networks and more specifically how these risks are perceived and how people can control their identity in this context. The next article compares privacy in two different categories of social systems (social network and collaborative workspace). Finally, another article discusses to what extent the current legislation, such the data protection regulations directive 95/46/EC, is providing the right instrument for dealing with privacy issues. Fast incremental mining of web sequential patterns with PLWAP tree Point and click at web pages generate continuous data sequences, which flow into the web log data, causing the need to update previously mined web sequential patterns. Algorithms for mining web sequential patterns from scratch include WAP, PLWAP and Apriori-based GSP. Reusing old patterns with only recent additional data sequences in an incremental fashion, when updating patterns, would achieve fast response time with reasonable memory space usage. This paper proposes two algorithms, RePL4UP (Revised PLWAP For UPdate), and PL4UP (PLWAP For UPdate), which use the PLWAP tree structure to incrementally update web sequential patterns efficiently without scanning the whole database even when previous small items become frequent. The RePL4UP concisely stores the position codes of small items in the database sequences in its metadata during tree construction. During mining, RePL4UP scans only the new additional database sequences, revises the old PLWAP tree to restore information on previous small items that have become frequent, while it deletes previous frequent items that have become small using the small item position codes. PL4UP initially builds a bigger PLWAP tree that includes all sequences in the database using a tolerance support, t, that is lower than the regular minimum support, s. The position code features of the PLWAP tree are used to efficiently mine these trees to extract current frequent patterns when the database is updated. These approaches more quickly update old frequent patterns without the need to re-scan the entire updated database. Morphology, systematic position, and distribution of Bothriocidaroid echinoids This is a brief review of conceptions of morphology, distribution and systematic position of the most ancient echinoid group—order Bothriocidaroida. It comprises 3 genera: Bothriocidaris, Neobothriocidaris, and Unibothriocidaris. More than 20 species of these genera are distributed from Upper Ordovician (Caradocian) to Lower Silurian (Llandoveri) in North Western Europe and North America. The question of whether this group belongs to the class Echinoidea or not has been the subject to discussions several times, particularly based on cladistic methodology. In my opinion the peculiarities of bothriocidaroids are quite typical of archetype definition of this class, however, so-called unique modalities of its merons are actually prone to variation both inside the group and among other echinoid groups. For example, Bothriocidaris maquoketensis has a structure transitional from uniserial to biserial interambulacra, however uniserial interambulacra are found in Paleozoic family Cravenechinidae and in some Cretaceous holasteroids and Cenozoic clypeasteroids. Unfortunately, such an important feature as the apical system is found only in one genus Bothriocidaris. Image interpretation: mining the visible and syntactic correlation of annotated words Automatic web image annotation is a practical and effective way for both web image retrieval and image understanding. However, current annotation techniques make no further investigation of the statement-level syntactic correlation among the annotated words, therefore making it very difficult to render natural language interpretation for images such as “pandas eat bamboo”. In this paper, we propose an approach to interpret image semantics through mining the visible and textual information hidden in images. This approach mainly consists of two parts: first the annotated words of target images are ranked according to two factors, namely the visual correlation and the pairwise co-occurrence; then the statement-level syntactic correlation among annotated words is explored and natural language interpretation for the target image is obtained. Experiments conducted on real-world web images show the effectiveness of the proposed approach. Two cystidicolids (Nematoda, Cystidicolidae) from marine fishes off New Caledonia Two nematode species of the family Cystidicolidae were collected from the digestive tract of marine fishes off New Caledonia, South Pacific: Ascarophis adioryx Machida, 1981 from the stomach of the speckled squirrelfish Sargocentron spiniferum and the sabre squirrelfish Neoniphon sammara (new host record) (both Holocentridae, Beryciformes), and a Spinitectus sp. female, morphologically similar to S. beaveri Overstreet, 1970, from the roundjaw bonefish Albula glossodonta (Albulidae, Albuliformes). Based on light and scanning electron microscopy examinations, A. adioryx is redescribed and a new subgenus Dentiascarophis subgen. nov., characterized by the presence of one dorsal and one ventral median protrusions in the mouth, is established to accommodate it; a key to subgenera of Ascarophis is provided. Ascarophis holocentri Parukhin, 1984 is considered a junior synonym of A. adioryx. The cephalic structure of Spinitectus sp. and S. beaveri is very different from those in other congeners and, therefore, a new subgenus Paraspinitectus subgen. nov., characterized by highly reduced pseudolabia, is erected to accommodate these species. The hemiurid digenean Lecithochirium cirrhiti (Manter et Pritchard, 1960) Yamaguti,1970 was found in the stomach of three species of squirrelfishes. Findings of A. (D.) adioryx, Spinitectus (P.) sp. and L. cirrhiti in New Caledonian waters represent new geographical records of these parasites.RésuméDeux espèces de Nématodes Cystidicolidae ont été récoltées du tube digestif de poissons marins de Nouvelle-Calédonie, Pacifique Sud: Ascarophis adioryx Machida, 1981 de l’estomac des poissons-écureuils (Holocentridae, Beryciformes) Sargocentron spiniferum et Neoniphon sammara (nouvel hôte), et une femelle de Spinitectus sp., similaire morphologiquement à S. beaveri Overstreet, 1970, du poisson-banane Albula glossodonta (Albulidae, Albuliformes). A. adioryx est redécrit à partir d’observations en microscopie photonique et électronique à balayage, et un nouveau genre Dentiascarophis subgen. nov., caractérisé par la présence d’une protubérance dorsale et d’une protubérance ventrale dans la bouche, est établi pour l’accueillir. Une clé des sous-genres d’Ascarophis est proposée. Ascarophis holocentri Parukhin, 1984 est considéré synonyme d’A. adioryx. La structure céphalique de Spinitectus sp. et de S. beaveri est très différente de celle des autres congénères et un nouveau sous-genre Paraspinitectus subgen. nov., caractérisé par des pseudolèvres très réduites, est établi pour accueillir ces espèces. Le digène Hemiuridae Lecithochirium cirrhiti (Manter et Pritchard, 1960) Yamaguti, 1970 a aussi été trouvé dans l’estomac de trois espèces de poissons-écureuils. La Nouvelle-Calédonie est une nouvelle mention géographique pour A. (D.) adioryx, Spinitectus (P.) sp. et L. cirrhiti. Online Search with Time-Varying Price Bounds 
Online search is a basic online problem. The fact that its optimal deterministic/randomized solutions are given by simple formulas (however with difficult analysis) makes the problem attractive as a target to which other practical online problems can be transformed to find optimal solutions. However, since the upper/lower bounds of prices in available models are constant, natural online problems in which these bounds vary with time do not fit in the available models.

We present two new models where the bounds of prices are not constant but vary with time in certain ways. The first model, where the upper and lower bounds of (logarithmic) prices have decay speed, arises from a problem in concurrent data structures, namely to maximize the (appropriately defined) freshness of data in concurrent objects. For this model we present an optimal deterministic algorithm with competitive ratio 
$\sqrt{D}$
, where D is the known duration of the game, and a nearly-optimal randomized algorithm with competitive ratio 
$\frac{\ln D}{1+\ln2-\frac{2}{D}}$
. We also prove that the lower bound of competitive ratios of randomized algorithms is asymptotically 
$\frac{\ln D}{4}$
.

The second model is inspired by the fact that some applications do not utilize the decay speed of the lower bound of prices in the first model. In the second model, only the upper bound decreases arbitrarily with time and the lower bound is constant. Clearly, the lower bound of competitive ratios proved for the first model holds also against the stronger adversary in the second model. For the second model, we present an optimal randomized algorithm. Our numerical experiments on the freshness problem show that this new algorithm achieves much better/smaller competitive ratios than previous algorithms do, for instance 2.25 versus 3.77 for D=128.
 Der ROPO-Effekt im Online-Reisebuchungsprozess fassungenIn relativ kurzer Zeit hat das Internet die Tourismusbranche nachhaltig verändert. Jahrelang vorherrschende Distributionsstrukturen und Wege der Kundenansprache wurden infrage gestellt und adaptiert. In diesem Zusammenhang ist die zentrale Aufgabenstellung der touristischen anbieter, gesuchte Leistungen zu finden sowie die Nachfrager bis zur Buchung zu binden, um den Geschäftserfolg nachhaltig zu steigern. Der Online-Reisebuchungsprozess umfasst sämtliche Such- und Buchungsaktivitäten des Kunden im Internet und unterteilt sich in sieben aufeinander aufbauende Stufen. Suchmaschinen spielen dabei eine führende Rolle. Sie nehmen die Rolle des »Gatekeepers« zu den relevanten Marktinformationen in Kombination mit dem hohen Nutzervertrauen in ihren Fähigkeiten ein und sind entscheidend bei der Präferenzbildung des Kunden für einen Reiseanbieter. Eine Studie zu Suchen und Buchen im Tourismus wurde durchgeführt: Als ein wesentliches Ergebnis kann festgehalten werden, dass ein Wechsel zwischen Anbietern am ehesten beim übergang der Aktivitäten »Präsentation« zu »auswahl« auftritt. Web data retrieval: solving spatial range queries using k-nearest neighbor searches As Geographic Information Systems (GIS) technologies have evolved, more and more GIS applications and geospatial data are available on the web. Spatial objects in a given query range can be retrieved using spatial range query − one of the most widely used query types in GIS and spatial databases. However, it can be challenging to retrieve these data from various web applications where access to the data is only possible through restrictive web interfaces that support certain types of queries. A typical scenario is the existence of numerous business web sites that provide their branch locations through a limited “nearest location” web interface. For example, a chain restaurant’s web site such as McDonalds can be queried to find some of the closest locations of its branches to the user’s home address. However, even though the site has the location data of all restaurants in, for example, the state of California, it is difficult to retrieve the entire data set efficiently due to its restrictive web interface. Considering that k-Nearest Neighbor (k-NN) search is one of the most popular web interfaces in accessing spatial data on the web, this paper investigates the problem of retrieving geospatial data from the web for a given spatial range query using only k-NN searches. Based on the classification of k-NN interfaces on the web, we propose a set of range query algorithms to completely cover the rectangular shape of the query range (completeness) while minimizing the number of k-NN searches as possible (efficiency). We evaluated the efficiency of the proposed algorithms through statistical analysis and empirical experiments using both synthetic and real data sets. The Influence of Need for Closure on Learning and Teaching A primary goal of educational systems is to provide learners with the information, skills, and dispositions needed to be an effective member of a complex and information-rich society. To effectively address this goal, educators and educational psychologists need to understand both the ability and the willingness of learners to grapple effectively with information. A psychological construct that may illuminate heretofore unexplored aspects of learners’ willingness or reluctance to grapple with information is the need for closure (Kruglanski, Psychol Inq 1(3):181–197, 1990; Kruglanski and Webster, Psychol Rev 103:263–283, 1996; Webster and Kruglanski, J Pers Soc Psychol 76(6):1049–1062, 1994). The purpose of this article is to provide educational psychologists with a theoretical overview of need for cognitive closure, highlighting its applicability to instructional settings. We will also discuss what closure needs may look like within the classroom and the conditions under which they may be exhibited. We argue for the relevance of the need for closure construct for improving educators’ understanding of teaching and learning processes. Comparative analysis of reproductive traits in 65 freshwater fish species: application to the domestication of new fish species Based on an extensive literature search (1,000 references), the objectives of the present study were to establish a numerical clustering of temperate freshwater fish based on their reproductive traits and to evaluate whether it was possible to extrapolate zootechnical knowledge among species belonging to the same cluster. About 65 species were classified into ten homogeneous clusters from the analysis of 29 reproductive traits, among which the most important were temperature during spawning, egg incubation and larval rearing, degree-days for incubation, larval size upon hatching, spawning season, and parental care. From this typology, a rather regular continuum of reproductive clusters emerges with two obvious endpoints. Between these two extremes, species could be ordered chiefly according to temperature requirement, spawning season and parental care. In conclusion, this new typology, differing significantly from all others proposed earlier, may now serve as a possible framework to help enhancing the domestication of new species by comparison to species belonging to the same cluster. Programmers, Professors, and Parasites: Credit and Co-Authorship in Computer Science This article presents an in-depth analysis of past and present publishing practices in academic computer science to suggest the establishment of a more consistent publishing standard. Historical precedent for academic publishing in computer science is established through the study of anecdotes as well as statistics collected from databases of published computer science papers. After examining these facts alongside information about analogous publishing situations and standards in other scientific fields, the article concludes with a list of basic principles that should be adopted in any computer science publishing standard. These principles would contribute to the reliability and scientific nature of academic publications in computer science and would allow for more straightforward discourse in future publications. Environmental influences on regulation of blood plasma/serum components in teleost fishes: a review Concentrations of both inorganic and organic blood plasma/serum components of teleost fishes were reviewed in seven habitat/life-history categories. These were: freshwater; inland saline; estuarine and nearshore marine; pelagic and deep-sea; diadromous; southern cold-water; and northern cold-water. Plasma/serum osmolalities were compared among groups acclimated to/living in fresh and in salt water. Contributions of inorganic ions and colligative and non-colligative organic molecules were evaluated including with respect to melting and freezing points, and “antifreeze activity” of plasma/serum in species from cold marine waters. Possible roles of TMAO in deep-water fishes were reviewed. Discussion also included influences of ambient salinity and temperature on concentrations of plasma/serum components. Seasonal cycles of blood plasma/serum components were discussed, along with antifreeze concentrations in other body fluids and tissues of cold-water fishes. Regulatory patterns of plasma/serum osmolalities were compared among the most euryhaline of teleosts evaluated here. Highest mean values of plasma/serum osmolalities in sea water were seen in southern cold-water and in pelagic and deep-sea fishes. The southern cold-water group also had the lowest plasma/serum freezing points among these groups. Comparisons of mean plasma/serum Na+ and Cl− concentrations among fishes from fresh waters did not differ significantly among groups, but species from cold marine waters showed higher levels than did other groups in marine waters. Plasma/serum osmotic, Na+ and Cl− concentrations of these seven groups of teleosts were compared with those of other fish-like vertebrate groups. Possible impacts of global warming on regulatory responses of plasma/serum components were discussed. Searching for metadata using knowledge bases and topic maps in Spatial Data Infrastructures Concern for environmental issues has become a reality in all sectors of society, mainly among researchers and professionals who work directly with environmental status. In this context, several studies have been undertaken on sustainable development of the Brazilian Amazon, generating a large amount of data and information. Environmental area characterization involves the knowledge about their natural, economic and social resources, as well as understanding the interaction and correlation among them. Such interdisciplinary character requires new solutions for knowledge representation. This study proposes to minimize metadata recovery problems in Spatial Data Infrastructures by using Topic Maps and Thesaurus. This approach applied to an interface aims to allow users to visually recover information from metadata catalogs. Metazoan fish parasites of Segara Anakan Lagoon, Indonesia, and their potential use as biological indicators The present study reports metazoan fish parasites from Segara Anakan, a brackish water lagoon located at the southern Java coast, Indonesia. Seven economically important marine fish species (Mugil cephalus, Siganus javus, Scatophagus argus, Caranx sexfasciatus, Lutjanus johnii, Eleutheronematetradactylum and Johnius coitor) were examined at two different sampling sites within the lagoon for the occurrence of metazoan parasites. A diverse parasite fauna was found, consisting of 43 species/taxa. Ectoparasites (31) were more abundant than endoparasites (12). The fish species J. coitor, M. cephalus and S. argus harboured the most diverse metazoan parasite fauna with 11, 13, and 16 different parasite species, respectively. Prevalence and intensity of infection for each parasite species/taxon is given, including short descriptions for rapid diagnosis. For the first time, we discuss the utilisation of the sampled fish parasites as biological indicator organisms for fish and environmental health within this tropical mangrove ecosystem. Ecto- versus endoparasite ratio and endoparasite diversity are suitable tools to describe the environmental health status at a tropical brackish water locality, and might be applied also for other tropical and possibly non-tropical marine ecosystems. Wettbewerbsvorteile durch Online Content Mining fassungenGut informierte Reisende berücksichtigen Kundenbewertungen aus dem Internet bei der Planung ihrer Reise. Dem Urlauber stehen Millionen von Reiseberichten zur Verfügung, in denen sowohl zufriedene als auch unzufriedene Urlauber ihre Erfahrungen beschreiben. Diese Informationen sind jedoch nicht nur für Reisende interessant, sondern auch für die Touristikkonzerne, Fluggesellschaften oder Serviceanbieter aus dem Tourismussektor. Dieser Beitrag fokussiert auf den Kreuzfahrtsektor und zeigt, wie Unternehmen moderne Online-Content-Mining-Technologien einsetzen können, um Kreuzfahrtberichte gezielt zu erfassen und auszuwerten. Auβerdem wird verdeutlicht, welche Wettbewerbsvorteile (z.B. verbesserte Kundensegmentierung, zielgerichtetes Marketing, kundenorientierte Produktentwicklung) durch die Nutzung der gewonnenen Informationen generiert werden können. Zum besseren Verständnis der vorgestellten Technologie wird der grundlegende Ablauf der Erfassung, der Analyse und der Darstellung von Reiseberichten erläutert. Anhand einer Studie, in der 57 Internetseiten mit Kreuzfahrtberichten systematisch untersucht wurden, wird sichtbar, dass die im Internet verfügbaren Kreuzfahrtberichte für eine automatische Erfassung und Auswertung grundsätzlich geeignet sind. Im zweiten Teil des Beitrags werden die verschiedenen Einsatzbereiche des Online Content Mining zielgruppen-spezifisch für Werften und Schiffsbauer, Kreuzfahrtanbieter, Reseller sowie Schiffsfinanzier er und Fonds zur Schiffsbeteiligung dargestellt. Neben einer Diskussion verschiedener Stärken und Schwächen der Technologie werden auβerdem konkrete Handlungsempfehlungen für ihren Einsatz gegeben. Der Beitrag schlieβt mit einem Ausblick auf die Trends der Online-Content-Mining-Technologie für die nächsten Jahre.