A Novel Data Mining Approach for Analysis and Pattern Recognition of Active Fingerprinting Components Active fingerprinting is an effective penetration testing technique to know about vulnerability of hosts against security threats and network as a whole. Sometimes firewalls may block fingerprinting packets, hence making the probes infeasible. Measured Round Trip Time (RTTm) is a benign number that can be obtained from communication based on legitimate non malicious packets. In this paper, RTTm has been used along with other timers namely Smoothened Round-trip Time (SRTT), Round-trip Time Variance (RTTVar), Retransmission Time Out (RTO) and Scantime for pattern recognition and association analysis with the aid of cross-correlations. Experimental relationship among these timers are derived to back-up existing theoretical knowledge. A novel method to estimate IP-ID Sequence classes and network-traffic intensity based on these timers has been proposed. Results show that the model can be used to accurately derive (about 100% accuracy) active fingerprinting components IP-ID sequences and link traffic estimation. Analytical results obtained by this study can help in designing high-performance realistic networks and dynamic congestion control techniques. Back to the Colorectal Cancer Consensus Molecular Subtype Future Purpose of ReviewThis review seeks to provide an informed prospective on the advances in molecular profiling and analysis of colorectal cancer (CRC). The goal is to provide a historical context and current summary on how advances in gene and protein sequencing technology along with computer capabilities led to our current bioinformatic advances in the field.Recent FindingsAn explosion of knowledge has occurred regarding genetic, epigenetic, and biochemical alterations associated with the evolution of colorectal cancer. This has led to the realization that CRC is a heterogeneous disease with molecular alterations often dictating natural history, response to treatment, and outcome. The consensus molecular subtypes (CMS) classification classifies CRC into four molecular subtypes with distinct biological characteristics, which may form the basis for clinical stratification and subtype-based targeted intervention.SummaryThis review summarizes new developments of a field moving “Back to the Future.” CRC molecular subtyping will better identify key subtype specific therapeutic targets and responses to therapy. Serendipity as an emerging design principle of the infosphere: challenges and opportunities Underestimated for a long time, serendipity is an increasingly recognized design principle of the infosphere. Being influenced by environmental and human factors, the experience of serendipity encompasses fundamental phases of production, distribution and consumption of information. On the one hand, design information architectures for serendipity increases the diversity of information encountered as well as users’ control over information processes. On the other hand, serendipity is a capability. It helps individuals to internalize and adopt strategies that increase the chances of experiencing it. As such, the pursuit for serendipity can help to burst filter bubbles and weaken echo chambers in social media. The article reviews the literature on emerging issues surrounding serendipity in human–computer interactions. By doing so, it firstly presents the study of serendipity and the debate about its role in digital environments. Then, it introduces the main features of a preliminary architecture for serendipity. Finally, it analyzes from an interdisciplinary perspective the values that embraces and sustains. The conclusion is that serendipity can be conceived as an emerging design and ethical principle able to strengthen media pluralism and other emerging human rights in the context of online personalization. Main limitations and potential unintended consequences are also discussed. Development of World Internet Looking at the history of world civilizations, humanity has progressed along with agricultural, industrial and information revolutions. Each of these industrial and technological revolutions has had great and profound impact on our way of production and life. Today, information technologies represented by the Internet are experiencing rapid changes with each passing day. They have become the leading power for the innovation-driven economic and social development. The world Internet development history is a cross-language, cross-national and cross-cultural history, a history in which all countries make joint effort and work together to build a community of shared future in cyberspace, and a history the integration of information technology innovation with industries. It is an important part of the history of world civilizations. Comprehensively considering technical innovation, industrial development, number of Internet users and situation change, we can divide the world Internet development into five stages: the birth of the Internet (1960s–1992); expansion and application of the Internet (1993–2000); popularization of the Internet (2000–2007); mobile Internet (2008–2016); Internet of Everything (2016–present).
 An Introduction to the History of the Internet: A Brazilian Perspective In the twenty-first century, the world has been restructured around the Internet. From economies, cultural activities, government policies, commercial enterprises, military action, sporting events, and educational policies to health policies and procedures are all conceived from the starting point of their presence on the web. Thus, considering its growth and the impact of the global computer network on our day-to-day lives, the purpose of this chapter is to present a historical perspective of the implementation and popularization of the Internet, with particular attention to the situation in Brazil. This chapter covers the construction of the Internet, revealing a process that began at the end of the 1950s, and focuses on the transformations it went through between 1995 and 2017. From the formative nodes that grew into what is now the Internet, the chapter traces the path of how its adoption and its popularization in Brazil resulted from the tension between the different sectors involved in its installation and in the efforts to expand the global computer network. IP-Telephony—Comparative Analysis of Applications This paper deals with the Internet Protocol Telephony or simply IP Telephony. We explain the meaning of this technology, its conveniences and disadvantages, evolution and history. The last part of the work informs about the most popular and widely used programs, which provide IP Telephony: Skype as a pioneer in a modern IP Telephony market with its peer-to-peer system and Whatsapp, a relative newcomer with a client-server system, which has gained much on the popularity among both young and elder generations in the last few years. Finally, a comparison matrix is given, which briefly displays the main differences and similarities between other popular VoIP applications (Viber, Telegram, Facebook Messenger, Google Hangouts, including Skype and Whatsapp). Netzwerke fassungIm Jahr 1969 wurden zwei Computer per Telefonkabel miteinander verbunden; das erste Netzwerk war geboren. In der Abbildung 8.2 sieht man die Übersicht auf das ARPANET im Jahr 1977 als Weiterentwicklung aus der Abbildung 8.1 von 1969. Die Hauptelemente sind Knoten (Rechner) und Kanten, die Leitungen darstellen. ARPANET steht für „Advanced Research Projects Agency Network“, einem Forschungsauftrag der US-amerikanischen Luftwaffe. Untersuchungsgegenstand Internet fassungDas Kapitel von Andreas Busch nimmt den „Untersuchungsgegenstand Internet“ in den Blick und vermisst ihn in Bezug auf Entstehung und Entwicklung. Die Entstehung erweist sich dabei als unwahrscheinliches und nicht beabsichtigtes Produkt verschiedener Initiativen, das seine Existenz weder dem segensreichen Wirken des freien Marktes noch der vorausschauenden Initiative eines klugen Staates verdankt, sondern den Effekten unvorhersehbarer Interaktion zwischen beiden. Die Unabsehbarkeit der Entwicklungen selbst für Insider ist der großen Kreativität bei der Nutzung des Internet geschuldet. Drastischer Anstieg der Nutzerzahlen ab Mitte der 1990er Jahre sowie wirklich weltweite Ausbreitung haben zu großer Bedeutung des Internet als Wirtschaftsfaktor beigetragen und strukturelle Wandlungen von großer Wirkung hervorgerufen, die schließlich vermehrte Versuche staatlicher Regulierung (in der Pionierzeit für technisch unmöglich gehalten) auslösten. In jüngerer Zeit sind dann die Auswirkungen des Internet auf die Mechanismen der liberalen Demokratie verstärkt in den Fokus der öffentlichen wie akademischen Debatte gerückt, nachdem sich frühe Träume umfassender Partizipation im Angesicht der Realität von Debatten in sozialen Medien zu verflüchtigen scheinen. Auch das, so argumentiert Busch, ist eine weitere Folge unerwarteter und unvorhergesehener Effekte des Internet. Telematics, Art and the Evolution of Networked Music Performance This chapter explores the evolution of practices and research in the fields of networked music performance (NMP) and telematic art with a focus on tele-improvisation. It outlines the development of telecommunications technologies in tandem to the creative projects and systems devised by artists and musicians. The emphasis here is on the innovations of the practitioner, adapting and developing approaches and technologies for creative purpose. It is not intended to be an exhaustive survey but rather an overview of telematic sound, music and arts practices, and the technological agenda that has shaped NMP research. This chapter highlights how artists have been at the forefront of exploring the conceptual and philosophical characteristics of remote networked interaction. Musicians, on the other hand, have primarily focused on the technical aspects of interface development, synchronisation, and connectivity. The literature reveals the need for a greater understanding of the interactive and experiential characteristics of the telematic musical experience, which this book addresses. The chapter begins with a summary and history of relevant network technologies and architectures to provide an overview of key terms and concepts referred to throughout the book. Ethical, Privacy, and Security Issues in the Online Social Network Ecosystems This chapter discusses the new realities of global computer online social network ecosystems, including moral and ethical dynamisms. Because we believe that a sound and details discuss of online social networks is based on a good understanding of the underlying network infrastructure, we start the chapter with a brief discussion of the computer network infrastructure. Based on this communication infrastructure we define a social network and its subset, the online social network. We discuss the types of social networks, their historical development and the different and changing services of online social networks. After discussing the basics of online social networks, we them focus on ethical, social and privacy issues in the online social network noting that while online, we inevitably give off our information to whomever asks for it in order to get services. We note that routinely information collected from online community members, however, is not always used as intended. It is quite often used for unauthorized purposes, hence an invasion of privacy. We discuss known ways we give off vital personal information while online in social networks. We further discuss ways to protect personal privacy. On the central point of ethical implications of life in the social network, we note that unlike in the traditional network, governance is not centralized, but community based with equally shared authority and responsibility by all users. But the mechanisms are not yet defined, and where they are being defined, it is still too early to say whether they are effective. The complexity, unpredictability, and lack of central authority is further enhanced by a virtual personality, anonymity and multiple personality. These three characteristics are at the core of the social and ethical problems in online social networks in particular and cyberspace in general; the larger and more numerous these communities become, the more urgent the ethical concerns become. Internet of Things (IoT) Overview This chapter introduces the foundation of IoT and formulates a comprehensive definition. The chapter presents a framework to monitor and control things from anywhere in the world and provides business justifications on why such monitoring and control of things is important to businesses and enterprises. It then introduces the 12 factors that make IoT a present reality Electronic Brains The fourth wave of Industrial Revolution led to the first programmable computers. Alan Turing defined what would later be called the research area called artificial intelligence. Developments accelerate. Computers got smaller, faster and smarter. The Internet was born. In the fifth wave, the World Wide Web and the smartphone appeared. A Survey of Quality of Service (QoS) Protocols and Software-Defined Networks (SDN) 
The issue of supporting Quality of Service (QoS) for media applications and other different applications has increased tremendously in industry and the scholarly community. The traditional network architecture became overloaded and congested due to the continued demand for network resources and the limited bandwidth available. The user experience and the academic studies have indicated an increase in limitations and weaknesses of these architectures. A new network architecture paradigm, called Software-Defined Networks (SDN), has received massive attention from researchers and it is used to find new solutions to the limitations found in traditional network architectures. This survey presents an overview of QoS in a traditional network, as well as in SDN. The existing SDN platforms, controllers, and protocols are presented as well as the multimedia flow routing mechanisms being investigated. The survey outcomes will be useful for people in the industry as well as academic researchers identifying current limitations and challenges of QoS within SDN and traditional network architectures.
 The History, Present and Future with IoT Human beings quest for making comfortable life is due to their inquisitiveness about technical arena. Over the last few decades, mankind had experienced technical transformational journey with the inventions of new technology frontiers. These frontiers have interacted with human beings and performed every possible work in shorter period of time and with a much greater accuracy. With the advent of ‘Smart Concepts’, the world is now becoming more connected. Precisely termed as hyper-connected world. The smart concepts includes smart phones, smart devices, smart applications and smart cities. These smarter concepts forms an ecosystem of devices whose basic work is to connect various devices to send and receive data. Internet of Things is one the dominating technology that keeps eye on the connected smart devices. Internet of Things has bought applications from fiction to fact enabling fourth industrial revolution. It has laid an incredible impact on the technical, social, economic and on the lives of human and machines. Scientists claim that the potential benefit derived from this technology will sprout a foreseeable future where the smart objects sense, think and act. Internet of Things is the trending technology and embodies various concepts such as fog computing, edge computing, communication protocols, electronic devices, sensors, geo-location etc. The chapter presents the comprehensive information about the evolution of Internet of Things, its present developments to its futuristic applications. Online Social Communities Social communities helps people to interact and engage both socially and cognitively. Direct and indirect relationships are built through these interactions with the members in the community. The members may be known, unknown, friends or relatives. With the invent of Web 2.0, Internet users were empowered with the ability to interact, share content and collaborate over the dynamic web pages. The evolution of technologies has helped the transition from offline to Online Social Communities (ONSC). Social interaction also got transformed within communities encouraging both offline and online connect. In this chapter, a comprehensive review of ONSC is done. First, the ONSC dimensions-user relationships, social interaction, common interests and virtual environments along with OSNC features-purpose, membership, rules and terms, user generated content, users-benefits and types are discussed in detail. Types of communities for ONSC are given based of three different school of thoughts. Second, the importance of ONSC management—user acquisition, user engagement and user retention, across different user participation life cycle stages—initial, growth, matured and decline, which is further mapped to user membership involvement phases, is given. Various perspectives, recommender systems and user engagement tools for ONSC are also included. A survey of ONSC structure detection techniques of disjoint and overlapping communities for both static and dynamic network structures is done. Finally, the applications of ONSCs across various domains are explained. The summary of popular ONSC available till date and supported businesses flourishing based on ONSCs are explicitly mentioned. Geschichte und Highlights von Social Media fassungZur Einführung in die Thematik bietet dieses Kapitel einen Abriss über die Geschichte von Social Media (Abschn. 2.1). Es folgt eine kritische Würdigung zum Status Quo sowie ein Ausblick. Welche (vor allem positiven) Auswirkungen Social Media auf unser Leben nehmen kann, wird anhand ausgewählter Highlight-Momente in Abschn. 2.2 beschrieben. Towards GIM, the Global Intelligent Machine In the present paper I argue that the history of machines has led the rise of the Global Intelligent Machine (GIM). To a certain extent GIM is a successor of the Internet of Things. However, in the near future GIM will encompass all existing machines of sufficient sophistication. More and more production machinery, including fully automated industries of all sorts, is being hooked up. GIM is a robotic machine with sensors, brains and actuators. It is global and it is intelligent. In the paper I point out some lines of development that led to GIM. I will also argue that GIM deserves to be studied in its totality (This paper is based upon my forthcoming book [5]).
 Coordination Technologies Coordination technologies improve the ability of individuals and groups to coordinate their efforts in the context of the broader, overall goal of completing one or more software development projects. Different coordination technologies have emerged over time with the objective of reducing both the number of occurrences of coordination problems as well as the impact of any occurrences that remain. This chapter introduces the Coordination Pyramid, a framework that provides an overarching perspective on the state of the art in coordination technology. The Coordination Pyramid explicitly recognizes several paradigm shifts that have taken place to date, as prompted by technological advancements and changes in organizational and product structure. These paradigm shifts have strongly driven the development of new generations of coordination technology, each enabling new forms of coordination practices to emerge and bringing with it increasingly effective tools through which developers coordinate their day-to-day activities. The New Flesh Rising Faster than light, able to fly, practically invulnerable, Superman is the forefather of a long series of characters distinguished not only by a more or less garish costume and a secret identity, but also – and above all – by a large series of powers of all kinds. Apart from some outsiders, like Batman and Iron Man, the bulk of superheroes differs from us common mortals for intrinsic capacities caused by exceptional events that enable them to perform actions that a human being, however gifted, would never be able to do. And so, Hulk has literally monstrous strength, and he can jump over the atmosphere and hold his breath underwater for hours; Spider-Man naturally adheres to vertical walls and has a “spider sense” that warns him of danger, while the Human Torch can ignite and reach the temperature of a nova; and these are just some of the many superheroes who have been haunting comics, movies, video games and TV series for decades. In short, we are now accustomed to hearing about superpowers, and there is no reason to be surprised if many expect that, thanks to the science of the near future, these capacities are destined to become real. To the point that there are those who, obviously lacking patience, have decided to get to work on obtaining these powers. This is how the concept – very Transhumanist, but now rapidly spreading outside of this context – of human enhancement was born, a fairly neutral term that hides the “human, too human” ambition to become post-human. Grundlagen der Vermittlungsschicht fassungZu den wesentlichen Aufgaben der Vermittlungs- oder Netzwerksschicht gehören die Nachrichtenvermittlung, die Wegewahl und die Staukontrolle. Darüber hinaus unterstützt die Schicht üblicherweise ein Multiplexing/Demultiplexing sowie bei Bedarf eine Fragmentierung von Nachrichten mit entsprechender Defragmentierung beim Zielrechner. Für die Vermittlung von Nachrichten gibt es grundsätzlich mehrere Verfahren, von denen die wichtigsten die Leitungsvermittlung und die Paketvermittlung sind. Eine Zwitterlösung bilden Virtual Circuits quasi als Leitungen über paketvermittelte Netze. Die Wegewahl, auch Routing genannt, dient dazu, die richtigen Wege zwischen Quellrechner und Zielrechner auch in komplexen Netzwerkstrukturen zu finden. Hier gibt es verschiedene Ansätze wie ein zentrales oder ein dezentrales Routing. Optimale Wege von Paketen durch das Netzwerk müssen ermittelt werden. Die Staukontrolle soll helfen, drohende Netzwerkengpässe frühzeitig zu erkennen und Maßnahmen zur Entlastung des Netzwerks einzuleiten. Marketing 4.0 fassungDigitale Technologien haben dem Marketing eine neue Dimension hinzugefügt. Während die Prinzipien des traditionellen Marketings unverändert Gültigkeit haben, ermöglichen technologische Neuerungen, dass Unternehmen und Verbraucher näher zusammenrücken.Auf Seiten der Verbraucher sind durch internetbasierte Anwendungen wie etwa die sozialen Netze Foren geschaffen worden, die Meinungsäußerungen von Privatpersonen über deren unmittelbares Umfeld hinaus verbreiten. Private Meinungsäußerungen im Internet stellen eine der signifikantesten Veränderungen des Verbraucherverhaltens dar. Die gleichfalls geschaffene, zunehmend unkomplizierte Möglichkeit zur VernetzungVernetzung der Verbraucher untereinander, auch grenz- bzw. kulturüberschreitend, gilt als Treiber einer der tiefgreifendsten Veränderungen der Instrumente und Methoden des Marketings.Auf Seiten der Unternehmen muss man sich darauf einstellen, schneller auf veränderte Erwartungen internetaffiner Kundengruppen einzugehen. Das professionelle Management von Kundenrezensionen im Netz ist dabei eine besondere Herausforderung. Chancen bieten sich den Unternehmen im Bereich der Datenverarbeitung und -nutzung. Zum einen stellt die datenbasierte Entwicklung personalisierter EmpfehlungssystemeEmpfehlungssystem, die dem Suchprofil eines Kunden entsprechende Angebote unterbreiten, eine neue Dimension der Verkaufsförderung dar. Zum anderen können auf der Grundlage großer Datenmengen, zusammengetragen aus unzähligen „Fußabdrücken“, die ein Nutzer im Internet hinterlässt, Profile von Personen erstellt werden, die – weg vom Massenmarketing – die Gestaltung und Übermittlung personalisierter Werbebotschaften ermöglichen. TCP/IP  Die Virtualisierung der Kriegsführung fassungMit der Rede von Cyberwar und dem die bewaffnete Drohne begleitenden Narrativ vom „Töten auf Distanz“ sind militärstrategische Hoffnungen einerseits, andererseits aber auch humanitäre und posthumanistische Bedrohungsszenarien verbunden. Ausgehend von einem tief greifenden Wandel internationaler Beziehungen nach dem Ende der Blockpolitik und einer diffusen Globalisierung werden unter der hier beschriebenen Digitalisierung des Krieges humanitäre Fragen, strategische Hoheiten und Reflexionen nach dem Status des Krieges selbst subsumiert. In Bezug auf den Cyberwar sind es Fragen nach strategischer Überlegenheit, informationsethische Fragen der Überwachung und des technologischen Vorsprungs, in Bezug auf bewaffnete Drohnen sind es auch solche nach dem Status des Tötens selbst: sei es als Verrohung oder sogar in Bezug auf die Delegation von lebenskritischen Entscheidungen an Maschinen. Trends in Technology When Douglas Engelbart presented “the Mother of All Demos” in 1968, neither the Internet nor its predecessor ARPANET yet existed. How would he make it possible to show what his colleagues were doing on their computers at Menlo Park while presenting inside an auditorium in San Francisco? It sounded like science fiction. Nothing stopped Engelbart from using the best available technologies to show his team’s research work, though. He used dedicated microwave links to share the videos of what his colleagues were doing a few kilometers away and thus demonstrated his remote collaboration tools. This successful event occurred in 1968, long before we heard of videoconferencing. A DES-Based Mechanism to Secure Personal Data on the Internet of Things The Internet of Things (IoT) helps users in their day to day activities such that they can communicate with each other through sensors very easily and in less time. Communication through intermediate sensor nodes may violate security because it may harm confidential user data or information by either modifying it or not forwarding to it. To deal with such problems, a number of cryptographic secure mechanisms are available that provide symmetric and asymmetric keys to secure data and each mechanism has its own pros and cons. In this paper, a secure DES-based mechanism is proposed in which a DES algorithm is used to transfer the data between users through sensor nodes without no loss of security. Computer Crimes Computer Crimes survey the history and examples of computer crimes, their types, costs to society, and strategies of detection and prevention. In the discussion, it is noted that a great number of computer attacks fall into two categories: penetration and denial-of-service attacks. And these are discussed in depth. Attack motives are also discussed. Are nations, businesses, and individuals prepared for computer attacks? Are they ready to pay the price? We look for answers to these questions as we ponder the costs and consequences of computer crimes. We note also that although it is difficult to estimate the actual costs of e-attacks on physical system resources, progress is being made for better and more accurate estimates. An in-depth discussion of the social and ethical consequences that include psychological effects, moral decay, loss of privacy, and loss of trust follows. We end the chapter with recommendations for educating the computing device users in computer ethics. The need to educate the user to be aware of possible sources of computer crimes and what to do if and when one becomes a victim of these crimes is stressed. It is noted that education can go a long way in reducing computer crimes if the users take crime preventive steps every time they use the computer and computer-related technologies. Statistical Analysis of Path Length in Optical Networks Optical networks are the main traffic carriers of all the modern communications. All the core and regional networks are very much optical these days. Even in the metro and access area networks, we now have a lot of presence of optical fibers. With the growth of traffic, the complexities of management and control aspects of the optical networks increase. In optical networks, shortest path and the minimum hop paths are not the only choices when the network operates at its optimum capacity level. Rather, several other paths are chosen for routing and traffic management, which are neither the shortest nor minimum hop path lengths. So, there is a requirement to understand the statistics of these paths. In this paper, we analyze the path lengths of 35 real optical transport networks (OTNs). For this study, we used 65 different statistical distributions. We found that both Wakeby and Johnson SB distributions are very much suitable for the modeling of path lengths in OTNs. The validity of our statistical measurements was checked using Kolmogorov–Smirnov statistic (KSS). For both Wakeby and Johnson SB distributions, all the KSS values obtained are valid at 95% confidence interval for all 35 networks. Ausgewählte Grundlagen rund um Industrie 4.0 fassungDigitalisierung, VernetzungVernetzung und künstliche Intelligenz können als begriffliche Eckpfeiler für die Einordnung, Charakterisierung und Analyse der Entwicklungen rund um Industrie 4.0 dienen. Insoweit lohnt es – einmal mehr vor dem Hintergrund aktueller Entwicklungen –, sich mit diesen drei Begriffs- und Bedeutungskategorien zu befassen. Industrie 4.0 findet verbunden mit einem Internet of Things (IoT) vor allem auch Anknüpfung an die Vernetzung von DingenVernetzungVernetzung von Dingen, wobei es ratsam ist, für Vernetzung generell ein weites Verständnis bezüglich der Vernetzung von Dingen und der Vernetzung von MenschenVernetzungVernetzung von Menschen zuzulassen, um die Entwicklungen insgesamt im Blick zu behalten. Es wird zu beobachten sein, inwieweit sich für menschliche und künstliche Intelligenz eine strategische Mensch-Maschine-PartnerschaftStrategische Mensch-Maschine-Partnerschaft entwickeln kann und wie sich diese und die Entwicklung dorthin genau gestaltet. Steuer- und Konfigurationsprotokolle fassungSteuer- und Konfigurationsprotokolle sind für die Funktionsweise von Internet-basierten Netzwerken essenziell. Zu diesen Protokollen gehören ICMP, ARP und DHCP. Ebenso ordnen wir NAT in diese Kategorie ein und obwohl DNS kein Protokoll der unteren Schichten, sondern ein Anwendungsprotokoll ist, gehört es doch auch in diese Liste der wichtigen Protokolle. ICMP überträgt Fehler- und Diagnosemeldungen über IP. Beispielsweise nutzt das Kommando ping ICMP. ARP übernimmt die Abbildung von IPv4-Adressen auf Adressen der Netzwerkzugriffsschicht (MAC-Adressen), DHCP sorgt für die dynamische IPv4-Adresszuordnung in Netzwerken und NAT ist ein Mechanismus zur Abbildung lokaler Adressen auf im Internet sichtbare Adressen. Das Domain Name System (DNS) hat schließlich als wesentliche Aufgabe die Abbildung von symbolischen Domainnamen auf IP-Adressen. Digitales Ticketing fassungTicketing hat sich im Laufe der letzten Jahrzehnte zu einer komplexen Angelegenheit gewandelt. Viele Softwarelösungen am Markt sind über Jahre mit den Anforderungen der Kunden gereift. Schon lange ist Ticketing kein isoliertes Phänomen mehr in einem Kulturbetrieb – vielmehr kommuniziert es über zahlreiche Schnittstellen mit anderen Systemen – vor allem mit der Webpräsenz der Kultureinrichtungen, da sich mehr und mehr Menschen online über mobile Endgeräte informieren und auch Tickets kaufen. Bei sinkenden Aufmerksamkeitsspannen und mehr und mehr Freizeitangeboten muss Online-Ticketing reibungslos und schnell erfolgen, damit kein Kunde abspringt. Dazu liefert die Ticketing-Datenbank wertvolle Hinweise über Kunden und Bewegungsdaten, die mit Big Data, CRM und Business Intelligence ausgewertet werden können für treffgenauere Marketingkampagnen – und mehr Erlöse. Information and Communication Technologies in Africa: Levels, Trends and Perspectives The ICTs revolution has caused profound upheavals in various aspects around the world including Africa. Whatever form they take, ICT-induced changes may have significant implications not only in the sector itself but also in all development sectors. The changes in the ICT sector in Africa are part of an international dynamic resulting from the combination of liberalization policies, incredible technological advances and strong consumer demand. This chapter presents the levels, trends and perspectives of Information and Communication Technologies in the African region. This chapter proceeds first with a literature review on regulatory policies in order to understand their ripple effects. After presenting a general history of ICTs, it analyses the evolving factors of internet connection in Sub-Saharan Africa. It also presents the internet perspectives and regulation in Africa including technologies trends as well as key technologies. It also assesses and proposes types of technologies for internet connection in Africa. It concludes with perspectives for sustainable trends of ICT in Africa. E-Society Realities in Sub-Saharan Africa: The Case of Cote d’Ivoire Over the past ten years, sub-Saharan Africa has undergone cultural transformations resulting from the development of ICTs at the political, economic and societal levels. The e-Society, beyond the organizational perspectives or the form that can be attributed to it, uses ICT and particularly the Internet. Through this study, we have looked at the formation of the e-Society in sub-Saharan Africa by querying some scientific publications or other qualitative data to see, as most of the illiterate and poor citizens are concentrated in this area. The study revealed two modes under which the e-Society operates, namely: a Government-Type Organization (e-Government, e-Commerce, e-Education, e-Health, e-Agriculture) and Private-Type Organization (private communities or platforms, working groups and exchanges Academics, social networks). Exploring the e-Society realities will surely rethink the way in which these societies are organized in terms of the evolution of digital technology. Paradigm Shift! The Path to Brutal Automation SDN NFV World Congress in The Hague in Oct. 2017 celebrated with 1700 delegates the fifth anniversary of the launch of the NFV whitepaper at the 2012 SDN World Congress in Darmstadt. Important new sessions included the Zero Touch and Carrier Automation Summit, TIP Telecom Infra Project Focus, and numerous Workshops organized by ETSI, MEF, OSM, ONAP and ONF. SDN and NFV now touches all parts of the network: Business services, SD-WAN, 5G Core, Access and Transport, Cloud-Optical, Broadband Access, and Security—all covered in depth through multiple Forums. This article covers some of the highlights and trends and insights gained at the conference, such as the fact that SDN and NFV are means to a goal, and that goal is automation. The term “Brutal Automation” has been coined in the opening keynote and turned out to stick in the memory of many participants as a key takeaway of the congress. This article tries to examine the meaning of Brutal Automation and where the industry stands on the path to reach that goal. One insight is that the telco industry has to expect and handle even more paradigm shifts along that path, such as the emergence of P4 runtime, SD-WAN, ONAP and the shift to cloud native—resulting in the need for cultural change to help overcoming the skill gap. Versicherung 2.0 – Marketing und Kommunikation im Social Media-Zeitalter fassungDie Hälfte der weltweiten Bevölkerung ist online. Besonders für (Versicherungs‑)Unternehmen ist es wichtig, sich in diesem Bereich optimal aufzustellen – mit den richtigen Instrumenten und den richtigen Maßnahmen in Kommunikation und Marketing. Von Grundlagen, Instrumenten und Einsatzmöglichkeiten über SEO‐ und SEM‐Maßnahmen bis hin zu Social Media‐Strategien und Online‐PR Maßnahmen gewährt Uwe Schumacher nachfolgend einen Einblick in das Online‐Versicherungsmarketing. Die Entwicklung der Medien im geschichtlichen Kontext fassungWer heute mit Medien aufwächst, vergisst leicht, dass diese auch schon bei früheren Generationen mit im Spiel waren war. Der Autor dieses Buches beginnt mit seinen eigenen Erfahrungen mit Medien im letzten Jahrhundert und erzählt von wichtigen Wegmarken seiner eigenen Medienbiografie (Abb. 1.1). Dabei arbeitet er die wichtigsten Konzepte heraus, die dem vorliegenden ersten Kapitel zugrunde liegen. Süchtig nach Internet? – Zwischen intensivem Spaß und Suchtverhalten fassungDer Projektleiter der Sektion „Suchtmedizin und Suchtforschung“ des Universitätsklinikums Tübingen, Kay Uwe Petersen, wirft einen Blick auf das Suchtpotenzial, das moderne digitale Lebenswelten mit sich bringen. Wenn Menschen die Kontrolle über ihr Online-Verhalten verlieren, beispielsweise mit Online-Spielen oder Binge-Watching nicht aufhören können, obwohl akut wichtige familiäre, schulische oder berufliche Angelegenheiten zu regeln sind, dann liegt ein Suchtmuster vor. Was eint Internetsucht mit anderen Süchten, inwiefern unterscheidet sie sich? Und welche therapeutischen Wege gibt es? Diesen und weiteren Fragen geht Petersen nach. QoS Enhancement Using an Adaptive Jitter Buffer Algorithm with Variable Window Size Variation in network characteristics introduces jitter to the propagating voice packets. Jitter hampers voice quality and makes the VoIP call uncomfortable to the user. Often buffers are used to store the received packets for a short time before playing them at equal spaced intervals to minimize jitter. Choosing optimum buffering time is essential for reducing the added end-to-end delay and number of discarded packets. In this chapter, some established adaptive jitter buffer playout algorithms have been studied and a new algorithm has been proposed. Further studies have been conducted for finding the optimum sliding window size for the proposed algorithm. The designed algorithm kept jitter within tolerable limit along with significant reduction of delay and loss compared to other algorithms. Networks All complex systems are made up of interconnected parts. This chapter introduces network science as the study of the relationships between parts. Simple line, ring, tree, grid, and other orderly networks are introduced and contrasted with random networks. Small-world and scale-free networks are explored as lying between ordered and random networks. Throughout, basic network measures such as histograms, clustering, centrality, pathlength, and diameter are introduced as well as the idea of an adjacency matrix. Using these measures, structural redundancy, network phase transitions, nested and overlapping networks, long-tail distributions, and black swan events are all explored. The growth and development of networks is also addressed through the rich-get-richer, L-system, tiling, and pruning algorithms. Examples are drawn from gene networks, ecosystems, language, social networks, chemical reactions in cells, and the formal and informal communication channels within a company. More provocative applications are given for the internet of things and the possible future evolution of humans. The chapter concludes with questions for either reflection or group discussion as well as resources for further exploration. The Digital Age (1981–Present): The Rise of Complexity Our final epoch is the one that we currently occupy. Although this spans the period from the 1980s to the present day, historians may eventually differentiate between the early Digital Age—running from the advent of the Personal Computer (PC) in 1981, to about 2015—and a post-Digital Age. In technological terms, the latter (or current) part of the Digital Age—what I am suggesting may eventually be recognised separately—is characterised by a new Industrial Revolution, and one that has been labelled Industry 4.0. The first Industrial Revolution is the one that we covered under the Age of Enlightenment. The second Industrial Revolution was characterised by mass production, assembly lines and electricity, and corresponds approximately to the late Romantic period, and early Modern Age. The third industrial revolution is defined by the rise of computers and automation—intersecting with the late Modern Age and early Digital Age—but the fourth Industrial Revolution (Industry 4.0) represents the synthesis of data analytics, autonomous systems and artificial intelligence in what is termed cyber-physical systems. ESPI Thought Papers on Selected 2017 and 2018 Developments On 27 December 2016, the Information Office of China’ State Council released the new version of the country’s 5-year policy guidelines for national space activities. Published in the form of a government White Paper, the document highlights the major developments of the past 5 years (2011–2015) and provides a comprehensive description of the programmatic intentions for the sector over the period 2016–2020. Overview of VoIP Technology This chapter presents an overview of the Voice over IP technology and elaborately describes its relevance in the modern society. The motivation for the selection of VoIP as a communication service is also established. Special emphasis has been laid on deploying VoIP over different networks including WLANs, WiMAX, LTE, cognitive radio networks. Finally, the evolution of VoIP and its penetration in public and private sectors have been tracked over the years that will justify the research initiatives pursued in the subsequent chapters. New Security Approaches for the Twenty-First Century: How to Support Crowd Security and Responsibility How can we protect companies and people from violence and exploitation? How can we open up information systems for everyone without promoting an explosion of malicious activities such as cyber-crime? And how can we support the compliance with rule sets on which self-regulating systems are built? Random Access Versus Multiple Access The support of Internet of Things (IoT) calls for physical and media access control (MAC) solutions capable to support a very large number of wireless devices transmitting short packets with low duty cycle. This chapter provides a survey of random access (RA) schemes devised for terrestrial and satellite applications which are suited to support IoT. The RA schemes presented are typically based on multiple access techniques described in the previous chapters. In particular, RA is exploiting time-, frequency-, and code-division multiple access techniques or combinations thereof. Various flavors of non-orthogonal multiple access (NOMA) are also adopted to increase the RA scheme spectral and power efficiency. The chapter is organized as follows: Sect. 17.1 summarizes the main terrestrial RA techniques and their suitability for 5G IoT applications; Sect. 17.2 provides a survey of 5G NOMA-based RA proposals for IoT5G NOMA-based RA proposals for IoT; finally, Sect. 17.3 illustrates the most promising NOMA-based RA schemes proposed or adopted for satellite networks which are also of interest to the more generalMachine type of communications terrestrial wirelessLow power wide area networks applications. Concepts In the last decade, several social media such as Facebook have been emerged as the popular social networking, websites in internet through world. There was also noticeable of speed increasing in international expansion of these social media, networks, and websites and in a word cyberspace (Graham, Thompson, Wolcott, Pollack, & Tran, 2015). Social Networking Awareness in Indian Higher Education Nowadays, few people can imagine life without the Internet. The utilization of the Internet has altered the way in which people communicate and share activities. The Internet is now being utilized in almost every field of human activity, including health, education, business and commerce, to name just a few. Currently, besides the Internet users started to use various tools from Web 2.0 and 3.0 in government, organizations and higher education to connect, communicate, cooperate and collaborate. This study will examine the social networking (SN) awareness in Indian higher education. An online survey was developed based on the current literature and distributed to more than 142 respondents from 100 completed the whole survey. The study outcomes confirmed that using social networking in the Indian higher education produced positive awareness of developing personal skills and communicate and accessible service. On the other hand, using SN created negative awareness in Indian higher education from negative emotions created, decreased productivity in social activities, laziness and depression issues, lack of communication and IP and decrease in study skills. Future research directions are suggested, which can consolidate the findings of this study by means of various surveys and increased sample sizes. Moreover, recommendations are made for improvement in SN research work by means of training and spreading awareness through seminars and other information avenues in the Indian higher education sector. The Coevolution of Computer-Mediated Communication and Computer-Mediated Discourse Analysis Susan Herring, the originator of the computer-mediated discourse analysis (CMDA) paradigm, describes efforts to extend CMDA over time in order to address changes in computer-mediated communication (CMC), such as nontextual communication and the trend toward convergence of multiple modes of CMC in a single platform. Following a review of three broad stages of technological evolution that shaped CMC from 1985 to 2017 and the themes favored by CMDA researchers at each stage, Herring proposes a reconceptualization of CMC itself as inherently multimodal. This reconceptualization includes communication mediated by graphical phenomena such as emoji and avatars in virtual worlds, as well as by certain kinds of robots. She argues that the principles at the core of the CMDA paradigm apply equally to interaction in these nontextual modes. Politics and Epistemology of Big Data: A Critical Assessment In this paper I will discuss Big Data as a suite of new methods for social and political research. I will start by tracing a genealogy of the idea that machine can perform better than human beings in managing extremely huge quantity of data, and that the quantity of information could change the quality of the interrogation posed to those data.In the second part of the paper I will analyse Big Data as a social and rhetorical construction of the politics of research, claiming in favour of a more detailed account of the consequences for its progressive institutionalization. Without a serious methodological assessment of the changes that these new methods produce in the scientific epistemology of social and political sciences, we risk to underestimate the distortive or uncontrollable effects of the massive use of computer techniques. The challenge is how to avoid situations in which it is very difficult to reproduce the designed experiment, and it is arduous to explain the theories that can justify the output of researches. As an exemplification of the problem I will discuss the work on emotional contagion led by Facebook and published on PNAS in 2014.Until now it was difficult to explore all the Big Data projects’ consequences on the perception of human intelligence and on the future of social research methods. The vision that there is no way to manage social data than to follow the results of a machine learning algorithm that works on inaccessible, epistemologically opaque and uncontrollable systems is rather problematic and deserve some extra consideration.