Radiology: “Killer App” for Next Generation Networks? The core principles of digital radiology were well developed by the end of the 1980 s. During the following decade tremendous improvements in computer technology enabled realization of those principles at an affordable cost. In this decade work can focus on highly distributed radiology in the context of the integrated health care enterprise. Over the same period computer networking has evolved from a relatively obscure field used by a small number of researchers across low-speed serial links to a pervasive technology that affects nearly all facets of society. Development directions in network technology will ultimately provide end-to-end data paths with speeds that match or exceed the speeds of data paths within the local network and even within workstations. This article describes key developments in Next Generation Networks, potential obstacles, and scenarios in which digital radiology can become a “killer app” that helps to drive deployment of new network infrastructure. Distributed Routing in Communication Networks using the Temporal Fuzzy Classifier System — a Study on Evolutionary Multi-Agent Control Distributed control of distributed systems (DCDS) is a challenging problem. Specific instances of the general problem occur commonly in systems of networks, for example: routing in multiprocessor computer systems (e.g. MIMD processors); dynamic task allocation in distributed client/server systems; control of power flow in electrical power distribution networks; and adaptive distributed routing in packet-switched communication networks. It is this latter DCDS problem which is examined in this study. Stochastic Learning Automata-Based Dynamic Algorithms for the Single Source Shortest Path Problem This paper presents the first Learning Automaton solution to the Dynamic Single Source Shortest Path Problem. It involves finding the shortest path in a single-source stochastic graph, where there are continuous probabilistically- based updates in edge-weights. The algorithm is a few orders of magnitude superior to the existing algorithms. It can be used to find the shortest path within the “statistical” average graph, which converges irrespective of whether there are new changes in edge-weights or not. On the other hand, the existing algorithms will fail to exhibit such a behavior and would recalculate the affected shortest paths after each weight change. The algorithm can be extremely useful in application domains including transportation, strategic planning, spatial database systems and networking. Scalability of Routing in Ad Hoc Networks: Principles and Practice Recent years have witnessed a surge in the interest in ad hoc networks. Spurred by ever-decreasing form-factors and cost of wireless transceivers and processors, a multitude of new applications are emerging. These in­clude short-range ad hoc wireless networks for ubiquitous computing, larger range indoor wireless LANs that operate in ad hoc mode, metropolitan area networks and sensor networks. Standards such as Bluetooth, HomeRF, and IEEE 802.11 are giving impetus to the growth in the number of ad hoc com­munication enabled devices. Propelled by these trends, ad hoc networks with a large number (e.g. 1000s) of nodes are moving rapidly from the realm of imagination to that of reality. S-RIP: A Secure Distance Vector Routing Protocol Distance vector routing protocols (e.g., RIP) have been widely used on the Internet, and are being adapted to emerging wireless ad hoc networks. However, it is well-known that existing distance vector routing protocols are insecure due to: 1) the lack of strong authentication and authorization mechanisms; 2) the difficulty, if not impossibility, of validating routing updates which are aggregated results of other routers. In this paper, we introduce a secure routing protocol, namely S-RIP, based on a distance vector approach. In S-RIP, a router confirms the consistency of an advertised route with those nodes that have propogated that route. A reputation-based framework is proposed for determining how many nodes should be consulted, flexibly balancing security and efficiency. Our threat analysis and simulation results show that in S-RIP, a well-behaved node can uncover inconsistent routing information in a network with many misbehaving nodes assuming (in the present work) no two of them are in collusion, with relatively low extra routing overhead. An Efficient Load Balancing Algorithm on Distributed Networks In order to maintain load balancing in a distributed system, we should obtain workload information from all the nodes on the network. This processing requires O(v2) communication complexity, where v is the number of nodes. In this paper, we present a new synchronous dynamic distributed load balancing algorithm based on (v,k+1,1) design, where v=k2+k+1. Our algorithm needs only $O(v\sqrt{v})$ communication complexity and each node receives workload information from all the nodes without redundancy. And load balancing is maintained so that every node has the same amount of traffic for transferring workload information. Application of Block Design to a Load Balancing Algorithm on Distributed Networks In order to maintain load balancing in a distributed system, we should obtain workload information from all the nodes in the network. This processing requires O(v2) communication complexity, where v is the number of nodes. In this paper, we present a new synchronous dynamic distributed load balancing algorithm on a (v,k+1,1)-configured network applying a symmetric balanced incomplete block design, where v=k2+k+1. Our algorithm needs only $O(v\sqrt{v})$ communication complexity and each node receives workload information from all the nodes without redundancy. Later, for the arbitrary number of nodes, the algorithm will be designed. Overview of Broadband Satellite Networks The convergence of computer networks and telecommunication technologies resulted in the explosive growth of the global information infrastructure. The independent research on distributed communications at RAND (1964), Advanced Research Projects Agency Network (ARPANET) sponsored by Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) group (1967), and network research at The British National Physical Laboratory (1965) have resulted in the development of packet switched networks. In 1972, the materialization of an open networking architecture [1] and the Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP) formed the fundamental milestone for the successful development of the Internet. During early 1980s, TCP/IP included in the Berkeley UNIX operating system became popular for several network services. Subsequently, in 1986, National Science Foundation (NSF) funded a new high-speed backbone network called NSFNET. Another significant evolution of hypermedia software interface to the Internet, called World Wide Web (WWW) (1991) made the Internet extremely popular. In 1997, various Internet service providers (ISPs) reported traffic growth on Internet at the rate of 10–20% per month. Ever since, the Internet has evolved so fast, that it became a vital part of communication infrastructure across the globe. Performance Assessment of Signaling Protocols in Optical Burst Switching Mesh Networks This paper presents a performance evaluation of just-in-time (JIT), just-enough-time (JET), Jumpstart and Horizon signaling protocols in optical burst switching (OBS) networks with mesh topologies. The analysis is focused on the following topologies: rings, chordal rings, mesh-torus, NSFNET, ARPANET and the European Optical Network. It is shown that choral rings with smallest diameter lead to best network performances. For 16 nodes and 64 data channels, the nodal degree gain due to the increase of nodal degree from two (ring) to three (chordal ring with smallest diameter) is about three orders of magnitude in the last hop of both topologies. Mesh networks with a number of nodes ranging from 14 to 26 nodes have been analyzed and it was shown that chordal ring topologies with smallest diameter are very suitable for this kind of networks. It is also observed that, for the cases under study, the network performance for JIT, JET, JumpStart and Horizon is very close. Performance Assessment of Signaling Protocols with One-Way Reservation Schemes for Optical Burst Switching Networks This paper presents a performance assessment of signaling protocols with one-way reservation schemes, which are the most used signaling protocols in optical burst switching networks. The analysis is focused on the following topologies: rings, chordal rings, mesh-torus, NSFNET, ARPANET and the European Optical Network. It is shown that these protocols lead to a similar network performance and, therefore, the simplest protocols should be considered for implementation in practical systems. It is also shown that for 16 nodes and 64 data channels, the nodal degree gain due to the increase of nodal degree from two (ring) to three (chordal ring with smallest diameter) is about three orders of magnitude in the last hop of both topologies for any of these protocols. Mesh networks with a number of nodes ranging from 10 to 30 nodes have also been analyzed. Konversation, Manipulation, Delegation: Zur Ideengeschichte der Interaktivität fassungWenn man die Manifestationen der Computertechnologie mit positiven Utopien belegt hat, waren sie meist mit der Idee einer „Befreiung des Geistes“ verbunden. Wie diese aussehen soll, hat man sich im Laufe der stürmischen Entwicklung jedoch recht unterschiedlich vorgestellt. Lange Zeit war die Automatisierung geistiger Tätigkeiten das vorherrschende Leitmotiv der Informatik, sei es beim wissenschaftlich-technischen Rechnen, bei der kommerziellen Datenverarbeitung oder in Forschungsprogrammen der Künstlichen Intelligenz, wo man den Geist gar für vogelfrei erklärt hat. Getreu der Automationsperspektive verstand man in der Anfangszeit der Computergeschichte unter dem Schlagwort „freeing the mind“, daß der Mensch durch die Maschine von langweiligen, repetitiven Tätigkeiten entlastet und für seine eigentlichen Aufgaben freigesetzt wird.2 In dem 1952 erschienenen Aufsatz „The Education of a Computer“ drückte Commander Grace Hopper die gängige Meinung aus: „It is the current aim to replace, as far as possible, the human brain by an electronic digital computer.“ ‚Niedere‘ geistige Arbeit soll automatisiert und in Routinen fixiert werden. Der Einsatz von Routinen-Bibliotheken in Rechenzentren ermögliche es dann, daß sich Menschen, die sich des Computers bedienen, wieder kreativeren Beschäftigungen zuwenden können: „The programmer may return to being a mathematician. He is supplied with a catalogue of subroutines. […] He needs only to be able to use the catalogue to supply information to the computer about his problem.“ (Hopper 1952, S. 272, 273)
 Internet fassungWichtigster und entscheidendster Vorläufer für das Internet in seiner heutigen 263 Form war das sogenannte ARPANET, das in den späten 60er Jahren in den USA entstand. Deliberative Polling Online fassungDie Einführung und Ausbreitung neuer Medien zeitigt neben einer Veränderung bisheriger Wahrnehmungsmuster in der Gesellschaft und einer zunehmenden Individualisierung der Mediennutzung stets auch das Aufkeimen neuer Hoffnungen hinsichtlich einer Belebung der politischen Teilhabe in der Bevölkerung und einer umfassenden Demokratisierung des Staates (vgl. Schmidt 2003: 146/147). Dies wird in der Gegenwart in besonderer Weise am Beispiel des Mediums Internet (von „interconnecting networks“; Klopfenstein 2000: 5) deutlich:Ursprünglich aus rein militärischen Erwägungen zur Sicherung eines stabilen Kommunikationsnetzwerkes bei möglichen nuklearen Angriffen zu Beginn der sechziger Jahre entwickelt (zu jenem Zeitpunkt noch unter der Bezeichnung ARPANET für „Advanced Research Projects Agency Network“; Klopfenstein 2000: 5), wurde das Internet im Laufe der siebziger Jahre zunächst von amerikanischen Forschungseinrichtungen und einzelnen Universitäten übernommen, bevor es mit der Etablierung des World Wide Web durch Tim Berners-Lee 1991 und der Einführung des Netscape-Browsers durch James Clark und Marc Andreessen 1994 im Laufe der neunziger Jahre für die breite Öffentlichkeit zugänglich wurde (vgl. Klopfenstein 2000: 9/10).71 Heute sind weltweit ca. 600 Millionen Nutzer auf über 12 Milliarden Websites online (vgl. van Eimeren/Gerhard/Frees 2003: 338). Allein in Deutschland weist die ARD/ZDF-Online-Studie für das Jahr 2003 einen Anteil von 53,5% der Internetnutzer an der Gesamtbevölkerung über 14 Jahre aus (vgl. van Eimeren/