The Latin American Social Medicine database BackgroundPublic health practitioners and researchers for many years have been attempting to understand more clearly the links between social conditions and the health of populations. Until recently, most public health professionals in English-speaking countries were unaware that their colleagues in Latin America had developed an entire field of inquiry and practice devoted to making these links more clearly understood. The Latin American Social Medicine (LASM) database finally bridges this previous gap.DescriptionThis public health informatics case study describes the key features of a unique information resource intended to improve access to LASM literature and to augment understanding about the social determinants of health. This case study includes both quantitative and qualitative evaluation data. Currently the LASM database at The University of New Mexico http://hsc.unm.edu/lasm brings important information, originally known mostly within professional networks located in Latin American countries to public health professionals worldwide via the Internet. The LASM database uses Spanish, Portuguese, and English language trilingual, structured abstracts to summarize classic and contemporary works.ConclusionThis database provides helpful information for public health professionals on the social determinants of health and expands access to LASM. Audit of therapeutic interventions in inpatient children using two scores: are they evidence-based in developing countries? BackgroundThe evidence base of clinical interventions in paediatric hospitals of developing countries has not been formally assessed. We performed this study to determine the proportion of evidence-based therapeutic interventions in a paediatric referral hospital of a developing countryMethodsThe medical records of 167 patients admitted in one-month period were revised. Primary diagnosis and primary therapeutic interventions were determined for each patient. A systematic search was performed to assess the level of evidence for each intervention. Therapeutic interventions were classified using the Ellis score and the Oxford Centre for Evidence Based Medicine Levels of EvidenceResultsAny dehydration due to diarrhoea (59 cases) and pneumonia (42 cases) were the most frequent diagnoses. Based on Ellis score, level I evidence supported the primary therapeutic intervention in 21%, level II in 73% and level III in 6% cases. Using the Oxford classification 16%, 8%, 1% and 75% therapeutic interventions corresponded to grades A, B, C, and D recommendations, respectively. Overall, according to Ellis score, 94% interventions were evidence based. However, out of the total, 75% interventions were based on expert opinion or basic sciences. Most children with mild to moderate dehydration (52 cases) were inappropriately treated with slow intravenous fluids, and most children with non-complicated community acquired pneumonia (42 cases) received intravenous antibioticsConclusionsMost interventions were inappropriate, despite the availability of effective therapy for several of them. Diarrhoeal dehydration and community acquired pneumonia were the most common diagnoses and were inappropriately managed. Existing effective interventions for dehydration and pneumonia need to be put into practice at referral hospitals of developing countries. For the remaining problems, there is the need to conduct appropriate clinical studies. Caution must be taken when assigning the level of evidence supporting therapeutic interventions, as commonly used classifications may be misleading Clustering under the line graph transformation: application to reaction network BackgroundMany real networks can be understood as two complementary networks with two kind of nodes. This is the case of metabolic networks where the first network has chemical compounds as nodes and the second one has nodes as reactions. In general, the second network may be related to the first one by a technique called line graph transformation (i.e., edges in an initial network are transformed into nodes). Recently, the main topological properties of the metabolic networks have been properly described by means of a hierarchical model. While the chemical compound network has been classified as hierarchical network, a detailed study of the chemical reaction network had not been carried out.ResultsWe have applied the line graph transformation to a hierarchical network and the degree-dependent clustering coefficient C(k) is calculated for the transformed network. C(k) indicates the probability that two nearest neighbours of a vertex of degree k are connected to each other. While C(k) follows the scaling law C(k) ~ k-1.1 for the initial hierarchical network, C(k) scales weakly as k0.08 for the transformed network. This theoretical prediction was compared with the experimental data of chemical reactions from the KEGG database finding a good agreement.ConclusionsThe weak scaling found for the transformed network indicates that the reaction network can be identified as a degree-independent clustering network. By using this result, the hierarchical classification of the reaction network is discussed. Considerations for the future development of virtual technology as a rehabilitation tool BackgroundVirtual environments (VE) are a powerful tool for various forms of rehabilitation. Coupling VE with high-speed networking [Tele-Immersion] that approaches speeds of 100 Gb/sec can greatly expand its influence in rehabilitation. Accordingly, these new networks will permit various peripherals attached to computers on this network to be connected and to act as fast as if connected to a local PC. This innovation may soon allow the development of previously unheard of networked rehabilitation systems. Rapid advances in this technology need to be coupled with an understanding of how human behavior is affected when immersed in the VE.MethodsThis paper will discuss various forms of VE that are currently available for rehabilitation. The characteristic of these new networks and examine how such networks might be used for extending the rehabilitation clinic to remote areas will be explained. In addition, we will present data from an immersive dynamic virtual environment united with motion of a posture platform to record biomechanical and physiological responses to combined visual, vestibular, and proprioceptive inputs. A 6 degree-of-freedom force plate provides measurements of moments exerted on the base of support. Kinematic data from the head, trunk, and lower limb was collected using 3-D video motion analysis.ResultsOur data suggest that when there is a confluence of meaningful inputs, neither vision, vestibular, or proprioceptive inputs are suppressed in healthy adults; the postural response is modulated by all existing sensory signals in a non-additive fashion. Individual perception of the sensory structure appears to be a significant component of the response to these protocols and underlies much of the observed response variability.ConclusionThe ability to provide new technology for rehabilitation services is emerging as an important option for clinicians and patients. The use of data mining software would help analyze the incoming data to provide both the patient and the therapist with evaluation of the current treatment and modifications needed for future therapies. Quantification of individual perceptual styles in the VE will support development of individualized treatment programs. The virtual environment can be a valuable tool for therapeutic interventions that require adaptation to complex, multimodal environments. Quality of life in spina bifida patients: results of an Italian survey  Blind Channel Estimation for Space-Time Coded WCDMA A new blind channel estimation technique is proposed for space-time coded wideband CDMA systems using aperiodic and possibly multirate spreading codes. Using a decorrelating front end, the received signal is projected onto a subspace from which channel parameters can be estimated up to a rotational ambiguity. Exploiting the subspace structure of the WCDMA signaling and the orthogonality of the unitary space-time codes, the proposed algorithm provides a blind channel estimate via least squares. A new identifiability condition is established under the assumption that the system is not heavily loaded. The mean square error of the estimated channel is compared with the Cramér-Rao bound, and the bit error rate (BER) performance of the proposed algorithm is compared with that of differential schemes. Robust Downlink Power Control in Wireless Cellular Systems A serious shortcoming of current downlink power control methods is that their performance may be severely degraded when the downlink channel information is known imprecisely at the transmitter. In this paper, a computationally and implementationally simple centralized downlink power control method is proposed for cellular wireless communication systems using code division multiple access (CDMA) or space division multiple access (SDMA). Our method provides a substantially improved robustness against imperfect knowledge of the wireless channel by means of maintaining the required quality of service for the worst-case channel uncertainty. In the SDMA case, the proposed technique can be straightforwardly combined with any of the existing transmit beamforming methods. Simulation results validate substantial robustness improvements achieved by our approach. Editorial  On the Performance of Multiuser MIMO in UTRA FDD Uplink We study the uplink performance of MIMO systems in UTRA FDD using noise rise and system load as performance measures. Results show that the uplink coverage and capacity of the UTRA FDD mode are significantly improved by SIMO and MIMO techniques that require only minor modifications to existing 3GPP specifications. Receive diversity in base station increases coverage and capacity in a straightforward manner, but the gain from transmit diversity in mobile station is small because of the fast closed-loop power control, which is essential to CDMA uplink performance. However, multiple transmit antennas in the mobile can be used to achieve higher than 2 Mbps single-user data rates. A Practical Radiosity Method for Predicting Transmission Loss in Urban Environments The ability to predict transmission loss or field strength distribution is crucial for determining coverage in planning personal communication systems. This paper presents a practical method to accurately predict entire average transmission loss distribution in complicated urban environments. The method uses a 3D propagation model based on radiosity and a simplified city information database including surfaces of roads and building groups. Narrowband validation measurements with line-of-sight (LOS) and non-line-of-sight (NLOS) cases at 1800 MHz give excellent agreement in urban environments. Greedy SINR Maximization in Collaborative Multibase Wireless Systems We present a codeword adaptation algorithm for collaborative multibase wireless systems. The system is modeled with multiple inputs and multiple outputs (MIMO) in which information is transmitted using multicode CDMA, and codewords are adapted based on greedy maximization of the signal-to-interference-plus-noise ratio. The procedure monotonically increases the sum capacity and, when repeated iteratively for all codewords in the system, converges to a fixed point. Fixed-point properties and a connection with sum capacity maximization, along with a discussion of simulations that corroborate the basic analytic results, are included in the paper. Performance Analysis of Multicarrier Systems in the Presence of Smooth Nonlinearity Most of the performance studies devoted to the analysis of multicarrier systems in the presence of nonlinear distortion assume that the multicarrier signal can be modeled as a random Gaussian process regardless of modulation format, guard interval duration, and number of subcarriers. On the contrary, we present an analysis based on the discrete model of the multicarrier signal. It is shown that the discrete model provides more accurate signal-to-distortion ratio and out-of-band spectrum prediction if the number of subcarriers is small. Only the effect of third-order nonlinearity is studied; however results can also be extended to the fifth-order polynomial model. Simulation results are provided which confirm analytical derivations. Crest Factor Reduction in MC-CDMA Employing Carrier Interferometry Codes This paper addresses signal compactness issues in MC-CDMA employing carrier interferometry codes using the measure of crest factor (CF). Carrier interferometry codes, applied to-carrier MC-CDMA systems, enable users to simultaneously share the system bandwidth with minimal degradation in performance (relative to the-orthogonal-user case). First, for a fully loaded ( and users) MC-CDMA system with practical values of, it is shown that the CF in downlink transmission demonstrates desirable properties of low mean and low variance. The downlink CF degrades when the number of users in the system decreases. Next, the high CF observed in the uplink is characterized and the poor CF in a partially loaded downlink as well as uplink is effectively combated using Schroeder's analytical CF reduction techniques. Time-Slotted Multiuser MIMO Systems: Beamforming and Scheduling Strategies We investigate the problem of scheduling for the uplink of a time-slotted multiuser multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) system with sum capacity as the performance metric. We first consider scheduling users' transmissions for fixed transmit beamformers. Upper bounds for the sum capacity of the time-slotted system with the optimum scheduler are found via relaxing a set of structural constraints. Next, we present a low-complexity scheduling algorithm that aims to approach the capacity's upper bound. The performance of the multislot multiuser MIMO system is a function of the users' transmit beamformers. In turn, the transmit beamformers can be shaped depending on the channel state information available at the transmitter. We investigate how the transmit beamformers should be chosen with different levels of feedback, and combine the proposed scheduling algorithm with antenna selection, eigen transmit beamforming, and perfectly controlled transmit beamforming models. We observe that as the available feedback level is increased, the performance of the scheduling algorithm approaches the upper bounds developed. In particular, a substantial sum capacity gain is attained when the individual channel state information is available at the transmitter side. Improving Capacity in LMDS Networks Using Trellis-Coded Modulation Local multipoint distribution systems (LMDS), which are operating worldwide in the frequency range of 26 to 43 GHz, have large bandwidths of 0.1 up to 2 GHz but a limited area coverage of a few kilometers only. This is due to line-of-sight (LOS) constraints for reliable point-to-multipoint links as well as due to large propagation losses. The size of the macrocells illuminated by the base stations, where LOS exists, is approximately 1 to 5 km. As suggested in the CRABS report (1999), the maximal spectral efficiency can be obtained with a dual frequency and polarization reuse plan. This frequency and polarization reuse leads to interference. In this paper, we report a new technique that uses trellis-coded modulation (TCM) for increasing the capacity of LMDS networks. Analytical expressions have been derived for pairwise error probability for both high and low SNR scenarios. Numerical simulations have shown that using the proposed TCM schemes in cochannel cells have resulted in a large decrease in interference, thereby allowing us to reduce the frequency reuse distance. In this paper, we present the strategy using two TCM schemes that allow the frequency reuse factor of unity, without compromising on the QoS caused by increased interference. Design rules for constructing TCM schemes are also proposed in this paper. Analysis of Multiuser MIMO Downlink Networks Using Linear Transmitter and Receivers In contrast to dirty-paper coding (DPC) which is largely information theoretic, this paper proposes a linear codec that can spatially multiplex the multiuser signals to realize the rich capacity of multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) downlink broadcast (point-to-multipoint) channels when channel state information (CSI) is available at the transmitter. Assuming single-stream (or single-mode) communication for each user, we develop an iterative algorithm, which is stepwise optimal, to obtain the multiuser antenna weights accomplishing orthogonal space-division multiplexing (OSDM). The steady state solution has a straightforward interpretation and requires only maximal-ratio combiners (MRC) at the mobile stations to capture the optimized spatial modes. Our main contribution is that the proposed scheme can greatly reduce the processing complexity (at least by a factor of the number of base station antennas) while maintaining the same error performance when compared to a recently published OSDM method. Intensive computer simulations show that the proposed scheme promises to provide multiuser diversity in addition to user separation in the spatial domain so that both diversity and multiplexing can be obtained at the same time for multiuser scenario. Performance Analysis of Capacity of MIMO Systems under Multiuser Interference Based on Worst-Case Noise Behavior The capacity of a cellular multiuser MIMO system depends on various parameters, for example, the system structure, the transmit and receive strategies, the channel state information at the transmitter and the receiver, and the channel properties. Recently, the main focus of research was on single-user MIMO systems, their channel capacity, and their error performance with space-time coding. In general, the capacity of a cellular multiuser MIMO system is limited by additive white Gaussian noise, intracell interference from other users within the cell, and intercell interference from users outside the considered cell. We study one point-to-point link, on which interference acts. The interference models the different system scenarios and various parameters. Therefore, we consider three scenarios in which the noise is subject to different constraints. A general trace constraint is used in the first scenario. The noise covariance matrix eigenvalues are kept fixed in the second scenario, and in the third scenario the entries on the diagonal of the noise covariance matrix are kept fixed. We assume that the receiver as well as the transmitter have perfect channel state information. We solve the corresponding minimax programming problems and characterize the worst-case noise and the optimal transmit strategy. In all scenarios, the achievable capacity of the MIMO system with worst-case noise is equal to the capacity of some MIMO system in which either the channels are orthogonal or the transmit antennas are not allowed to cooperate or in which no channel state information is available at the transmitter. Furthermore, the minimax expressions fulfill a saddle point property. All theoretical results are illustrated by examples and numerical simulations. Iterative MIMO Turbo Multiuser Detection and Equalization for STTrC-Coded Systems with Unknown Interference Iterative multiuser detection in a single-carrier broadband multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) system is studied in this paper. A minimum mean squared error (MMSE) low-complexity multiuser receiver is derived for space-division multiple-access (SDMA) space-time trellis-coded (STTrC) systems in frequency-selective fading channels. The receiver uses MMSE filtering to jointly detect several transmit antennas of the user of interest, while the interference from the undetected transmit antennas, cochannel interference (CCI), and intersymbol interference (ISI) are all cancelled by the soft cancellation. The performances of two extreme receiver cases are evaluated. In the first case, only one transmit antenna of the user of interest is detected at a time and the remaining ones are cancelled by soft cancellation. In the second case, all the transmit antennas are detected jointly. The comparison of the two cases shows improvement with the latter one, both in single-user and multiuser communications and in the presence of unknown cochannel interference (UCCI). It is further shown that in the multiuser case, the proposed receivers approach the corresponding single-user bounds. The number of receive antenna elements required to achieve single-user bound is thereby equal to the number of users and not to the total number of transmit antennas. Cochannel Interference Mitigation and Cooperative Processing in Downlink Multicell Multiuser MIMO Networks Recently, the remarkable capacity potential of multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) wireless communication systems was unveiled. The predicted enormous capacity gain of MIMO is nonetheless significantly limited by cochannel interference (CCI) in realistic cellular environments. The previously proposed advanced receiver technique improves the system performance at the cost of increased receiver complexity, and the achieved system capacity is still significantly away from the interference-free capacity upper bound, especially in environments with strong CCI. In this paper, base station cooperative processing is explored to address the CCI mitigation problem in downlink multicell multiuser MIMO networks, and is shown to dramatically increase the capacity with strong CCI. Both information-theoretic dirty paper coding approach and several more practical joint transmission schemes are studied with pooled and practical per-base power constraints, respectively. Besides the CCI mitigation potential, other advantages of cooperative processing including the power gain, channel rank/conditioning advantage, and macrodiversity protection are also addressed. The potential of our proposed joint transmission schemes is verified with both heuristic and realistic cellular MIMO settings. An Approach to Optimum Joint Beamforming Design in a MIMO-OFDM Multiuser System This paper describes a multiuser scenario with several terminals acceding simultaneously to the same frequency channel. The objective is to design an optimal multiuser system that may be used as a comparative framework when evaluating other suboptimal solutions and to contribute to the already published works on this topic. The present work assumes that a centralized manager knows perfectly all the channel responses between all the terminals. According to this, the transmitters and receivers, using antenna arrays and leading to the so-called multiple-input-multiple-output (MIMO) channels, are designed in a joint beamforming approach, attempting to minimize the total transmit power subject to quality of service (QoS) constraints. Since this optimization problem is not convex, the use of the simulated annealing (SA) technique is proposed to find the optimum solution. Design of FIR Precoders and Equalizers for Broadband MIMO Wireless Channels with Power Constraints This paper examines the optimum design of FIR precoders or equalizers for multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) frequency-selective wireless channels. For the case of a left-coprime FIR channel, which arises generically when the number of transmit antennas is larger than the number of receive antennas, the Bezout matrix identity can be employed to design an FIR MIMO precoder that equalizes exactly the channel at the transmitter. Similarly, for a right-coprime FIR channel, the Bezout identity yields an FIR zero-forcing MIMO equalizer. Unfortunately, Bezout precoders usually increase the transmit power, and Bezout equalizers tend to amplify the noise power. To overcome this problem, we describe in this paper a convex optimization technique for the optimal synthesis of MIMO FIR precoders subject to transmit power constraints, and of MIMO FIR equalizers with output noise power constraints. The synthesis problem reduces to the minimization of a quadratic objective function under convex quadratic inequality constraints, so it can be solved by employing Lagrangian duality. Instead of solving the primal problem, we solve the lower-dimensional dual problem for the Lagrange multipliers. When an FIR MIMO precoder has already been selected, we also describe a technique for adding a vector shaping sequence to the transmitted signal in order to reduce the transmit power. The selection of effective shaping sequences requires a search over a trellis of large dimensionality, which can be accomplished suboptimally by employing reduced-complexity search techniques. A Hybrid Approach to Spatial Multiplexing in Multiuser MIMO Downlinks In the downlink of a multiuser multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) communication system, simultaneous transmission to several users requires joint optimization of the transmitted signals. Allowing all users to have multiple antennas adds an additional degree of complexity to the problem. In this paper, we examine the case where a single base station transmits to multiple users using linear processing (beamforming) at each of the antenna arrays. We propose generalizations of several previous iterative algorithms for multiuser transmit beamforming that allow multiple antennas and multiple data streams for each user, and that take into account imperfect channel estimates at the transmitter. We then present a new hybrid algorithm that is based on coordinated transmit-receive beamforming, and combines the strengths of nonorthogonal iterative solutions with zero-forcing solutions. The problem of distributing power among the subchannels is solved by using standard bit-loading algorithms combined with the subchannel gains resulting from the zero-forcing solution. The result is a significant performance improvement over equal power distribution. At the same time, the number of iterations required to compute the final solution is reduced. Using ontologies to describe mouse phenotypes The mouse is an important model of human genetic disease. Describing phenotypes of mutant mice in a standard, structured manner that will facilitate data mining is a major challenge for bioinformatics. Here we describe a novel, compositional approach to this problem which combines core ontologies from a variety of sources. This produces a framework with greater flexibility, power and economy than previous approaches. We discuss some of the issues this approach raises. WINPEPI (PEPI-for-Windows): computer programs for epidemiologists BackgroundThe WINPEPI (PEPI-for-Windows) computer programs for epidemiologists are designed for use in practice and research in the health field and as learning or teaching aids. They aim to complement other statistics packages. The programs are free, and can be downloaded from the Internet.ImplementationThere are at present four WINPEPI programs: DESCRIBE, for use in descriptive epidemiology, COMPARE2, for use in comparisons of two independent groups or samples, PAIRSetc, for use in comparisons of paired and other matched observations, and WHATIS, a "ready reckoner" utility program. The programs contain 75 modules, each of which provides a number, sometimes a large number, of statistical procedures. The manuals explain the uses, limitations and applicability of specific procedures, and furnish formulae and references.ConclusionsWINPEPI provides a wide variety of statistical routines commonly used by epidemiologists, and is a handy resource for many procedures that are not very commonly used or easily found. The programs are in general user-friendly, although some users may be confused by the large numbers of options and results provided. The main limitations are the inability to read data files and the fact that only one of the programs presents graphic results. WINPEPI has a considerable potential as a learning and teaching aid. Knockdown of c-Myc expression by RNAi inhibits MCF-7 breast tumor cells growth in vitro and in vivo IntroductionBreast cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in women worldwide. Elevated expression of c-Myc is a frequent genetic abnormality seen in this malignancy. For a better understanding of its role in maintaining the malignant phenotype, we used RNA interference (RNAi) directed against c-Myc in our study. RNAi provides a new, reliable method to investigate gene function and has the potential for gene therapy. The aim of the study was to examine the anti-tumor effects elicited by a decrease in the protein level of c-Myc by RNAi and its possible mechanism of effects in MCF-7 cells.MethodA plasmid-based polymerase III promoter system was used to deliver and express short interfering RNA (siRNA) targeting c-myc to reduce its expression in MCF-7 cells. Western blot analysis was used to measure the protein level of c-Myc. We assessed the effects of c-Myc silencing on tumor growth by a growth curve, by soft agar assay and by nude mice experiments in vivo. Standard fluorescence-activated cell sorter analysis and TdT-mediated dUTP nick end labelling assay were used to determine apoptosis of the cells.ResultsOur data showed that plasmids expressing siRNA against c-myc markedly and durably reduced its expression in MCF-7 cells by up to 80%, decreased the growth rate of MCF-7 cells, inhibited colony formation in soft agar and significantly reduced tumor growth in nude mice. We also found that depletion of c-Myc in this manner promoted apoptosis of MCF-7 cells upon serum withdrawal.Conclusionc-Myc has a pivotal function in the development of breast cancer. Our data show that decreasing the c-Myc protein level in MCF-7 cells by RNAi could significantly inhibit tumor growth both in vitro and in vivo, and imply the therapeutic potential of RNAi on the treatment of breast cancer by targeting overexpression oncogenes such as c-myc, and c-myc might be a potential therapeutic target for human breast cancer. Gene Ontology: looking backwards and forwards The Gene Ontology consortium began six years ago with a group of scientists who decided to connect our data by sharing the same language for describing it. Its most significant achievement lies in uniting many independent biological database efforts into a cooperative force. The Mammalian Phenotype Ontology as a tool for annotating, analyzing and comparing phenotypic information The Mammalian Phenotype (MP) Ontology enables robust annotation of mammalian phenotypes in the context of mutations, quantitative trait loci and strains that are used as models of human biology and disease. The MP Ontology supports different levels and richness of phenotypic knowledge and flexible annotations to individual genotypes. It continues to develop dynamically via collaborative input from research groups, mutagenesis consortia, and biological domain experts. The MP Ontology is currently used by the Mouse Genome Database and Rat Genome Database to represent phenotypic data. A suite of web applications to streamline the interdisciplinary collaboration in secondary data analyses BackgroundWe describe a system of web applications designed to streamline the interdisciplinary collaboration in outcomes research.DescriptionThe outcomes research process can be described as a set of three interrelated phases: design and selection of data sources, analysis, and output. Each of these phases has inherent challenges that can be addressed by a group of five web applications developed by our group. QuestForm allows for the formulation of relevant and well-structured outcomes research questions; Research Manager facilitates the project management and electronic file exchange among researchers; Analysis Charts facilitate the communication of complex statistical techniques to clinicians with varying previous levels of statistical knowledge; Literature Matrices improve the efficiency of literature reviews. An outcomes research question is used to illustrate the use of the system.ConclusionsThe system presents an alternative to streamline the interdisciplinary collaboration of clinicians, statisticians, programmers, and graduate students. Psychological health of family caregivers of children admitted at birth to a NICU and healthy children: a population-based cross-sectional survey BackgroundThere is little information in the research literature on how parents of children who spend time in a neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) adapt psychologically to the demands of caregiving beyond the initial hospitalization period. Our aim was to compare parents of NICU children with parents of healthy full-term children, looking specifically at the relationship between parental psychosocial health and child characteristics, as well as the relationship between important predictor variables and psychosocial health.MethodsA cross-sectional survey was sent to parents as their child turned 3 1/2 years of age. The setting was the province of British Columbia, Canada. The sample included all babies admitted to tertiary level neonatal intensive care units (NICU) at birth over a 16-month period, and a consecutive sample of healthy babies. The main outcome was the SF-36 mental component summary (MCS) score. Predictor variables included caregiver gender; caregiver age; marital status; parental education; annual household income; child health status; child behavior; birth-related risk factors; caregiver strain; and family function.ResultsPsychosocial health of NICU parents did not differ from parents of healthy children. Child health status and behavior for NICU and healthy children were strongly related to MCS score in bivariate analysis. In the pooled multivariate model, parental age, low family function, high caregiver strain, and child's internalizing and externalizing behavioral symptoms were independently associated with lower psychosocial health. In addition, female gender was associated with lower psychosocial health in the NICU group, whereas lower education and child's problem with quality of life indicated lower psychosocial health in the healthy baby group.ConclusionsOverall, parental gender, family functioning and caregiver strain played influential roles in parental psychosocial health. The DiAMOND trial protocol: a randomised controlled trial of two decision aids for mode of delivery among women with a previous caesarean section [ISRCTN84367722] BackgroundCaesarean section (CS) has become an increasingly common method of delivery worldwide, rising in the UK from 9% of deliveries in 1980 to over 21% 2001. This increase, and the question of whether CS should be available to women on request, has been the subject of considerable debate, and national reports and guidelines have specifically highlighted the importance of patient choice in the decision making process. For women who have already experienced CS, the UK National Institute of Clinical Excellence recommends that the decision should consider maternal preferences and priorities in addition to general discussion of the overall risks and benefits of CS. Decision aids for many different medical treatment and screening decisions have been developed and evaluated, but there is relatively little evidence for the use of decision aids for choice of mode of delivery among women with a previous CS. The aim of the study is to evaluate two interventions to assist decision making about mode of delivery among pregnant women with one previous CS.Methods/designWomen with one previous CS are recruited to the trial during their booking visit at approximately 12–20 weeks' gestation in participating maternity units in Bristol, Weston and Dundee. Using central randomisation, women are allocated to one of three arms: information programme and website; decision analysis; usual care. Both interventions are computer-based, and are designed to provide women with detailed information about the potential outcomes for both mother and baby of planned vaginal delivery, planned CS and emergency CS. The decision analysis intervention additionally provides a recommended 'preferred option' based on maximised expected utility. There are two primary outcomes (decisional conflict and actual mode of delivery), and five secondary outcomes (anxiety, knowledge, perceptions of shared decision making; satisfaction with decision making process, proportion of women attempting vaginal delivery). Primary follow up for the questionnaire measures is at 36–37 weeks' gestation, and a total of 660 women will be recruited to the study. The primary intention-to-treat analyses will comprise three pair-wise comparisons between decision analysis, information and usual care groups, for each of the two primary outcomes. A qualitative study will investigate women's experiences of the decision making in more depth, and an economic evaluation from the perspective of the NHS will be conducted.DiscussionProvision of information to women facing this decision appears variable. The DiAMOND study aims to inform best practice in this area by evaluating the effectiveness of two interventions designed to aid decision making. Cerebrospinal Fluid Research:A new platform for dissemination of research, opinions and reviews with a common theme Cerebrospinal Fluid Research aims to provide a specialist platform for high quality articles on all aspects of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), bringing together experts working in the field and promoting synthesis and dialogue. This, launch Editorial provides an overview of the field, some history, and highlights some of the journal policies. Quantitative evaluation of recall and precision of CAT Crawler, a search engine specialized on retrieval of Critically Appraised Topics BackgroundCritically Appraised Topics (CATs) are a useful tool that helps physicians to make clinical decisions as the healthcare moves towards the practice of Evidence-Based Medicine (EBM). The fast growing World Wide Web has provided a place for physicians to share their appraised topics online, but an increasing amount of time is needed to find a particular topic within such a rich repository.MethodsA web-based application, namely the CAT Crawler, was developed by Singapore's Bioinformatics Institute to allow physicians to adequately access available appraised topics on the Internet. A meta-search engine, as the core component of the application, finds relevant topics following keyword input. The primary objective of the work presented here is to evaluate the quantity and quality of search results obtained from the meta-search engine of the CAT Crawler by comparing them with those obtained from two individual CAT search engines. From the CAT libraries at these two sites, all possible keywords were extracted using a keyword extractor. Of those common to both libraries, ten were randomly chosen for evaluation. All ten were submitted to the two search engines individually, and through the meta-search engine of the CAT Crawler. Search results were evaluated for relevance both by medical amateurs and professionals, and the respective recall and precision were calculated.ResultsWhile achieving an identical recall, the meta-search engine showed a precision of 77.26% (±14.45) compared to the individual search engines' 52.65% (±12.0) (p < 0.001).ConclusionThe results demonstrate the validity of the CAT Crawler meta-search engine approach. The improved precision due to inherent filters underlines the practical usefulness of this tool for clinicians. Teaching statistics to medical students using problem-based learning: the Australian experience BackgroundProblem-based learning (PBL) is gaining popularity as a teaching method in UK medical schools, but statistics and research methods are not being included in this teaching. There are great disadvantages in omitting statistics and research methods from the main teaching. PBL is well established in Australian medical schools. The Australian experience in teaching statistics and research methods in curricula based on problem-based learning may provide guidance for other countries, such as the UK, where this method is being introduced.MethodsAll Australian medical schools using PBL were visited, with two exceptions. Teachers of statistics and medical education specialists were interviewed. For schools which were not visited, information was obtained by email.ResultsNo Australian medical school taught statistics and research methods in a totally integrated way, as part of general PBL teaching. In some schools, statistical material was integrated but taught separately, using different tutors. In one school, PBL was used only for 'public health' related subjects. In some, a parallel course using more traditional techniques was given alongside the PBL teaching of other material. This model was less successful than the others.ConclusionsThere are several difficulties in implementing an integrated approach. However, not integrating is detrimental to statistics and research methods teaching, which is of particular concern in the age of evidence-based medicine. Some possible ways forward are suggested. GECKO: a complete large-scale gene expression analysis platform BackgroundGecko (Gene Expression: Computation and Knowledge Organization) is a complete, high-capacity centralized gene expression analysis system, developed in response to the needs of a distributed user community.ResultsBased on a client-server architecture, with a centralized repository of typically many tens of thousands of Affymetrix scans, Gecko includes automatic processing pipelines for uploading data from remote sites, a data base, a computational engine implementing ~ 50 different analysis tools, and a client application. Among available analysis tools are clustering methods, principal component analysis, supervised classification including feature selection and cross-validation, multi-factorial ANOVA, statistical contrast calculations, and various post-processing tools for extracting data at given error rates or significance levels. On account of its open architecture, Gecko also allows for the integration of new algorithms. The Gecko framework is very general: non-Affymetrix and non-gene expression data can be analyzed as well. A unique feature of the Gecko architecture is the concept of the Analysis Tree (actually, a directed acyclic graph), in which all successive results in ongoing analyses are saved. This approach has proven invaluable in allowing a large (~ 100 users) and distributed community to share results, and to repeatedly return over a span of years to older and potentially very complex analyses of gene expression data.ConclusionsThe Gecko system is being made publicly available as free software http://sourceforge.net/projects/geckoe. In totality or in parts, the Gecko framework should prove useful to users and system developers with a broad range of analysis needs. Presence and rehabilitation: toward second-generation virtual reality applications in neuropsychology Virtual Reality (VR) offers a blend of attractive attributes for rehabilitation. The most exploited is its ability to create a 3D simulation of reality that can be explored by patients under the supervision of a therapist. In fact, VR can be defined as an advanced communication interface based on interactive 3D visualization, able to collect and integrate different inputs and data sets in a single real-like experience.However, "treatment is not just fixing what is broken; it is nurturing what is best" (Seligman & Csikszentmihalyi). For rehabilitators, this statement supports the growing interest in the influence of positive psychological state on objective health care outcomes.This paper introduces a bio-cultural theory of presence linking the state of optimal experience defined as "flow" to a virtual reality experience. This suggests the possibility of using VR for a new breed of rehabilitative applications focused on a strategy defined as transformation of flow. In this view, VR can be used to trigger a broad empowerment process within the flow experience induced by a high sense of presence.The link between its experiential and simulative capabilities may transform VR into the ultimate rehabilitative device. Nevertheless, further research is required to explore more in depth the link between cognitive processes, motor activities, presence and flow. Transfer of Health for All policy – What, how and in which direction? A two-case study BackgroundThis article explores the transfer of World Health Organization's (WHO) policy initiative Health for All by the Year 2000 (HFA2000) into national contexts by using the changes in the public health policies of Finland and Portugal from the 1970's onward and the relationship of these changes to WHO policy development as test cases. Finland and Portugal were chosen to be compared as they represent different welfare state types and as the paradigmatic transition from the old to new public health is assumed to be related to the wider welfare state development.MethodsThe policy transfer approach is used as a conceptual tool to analyze the possible policy changes related to the adaptation of HFA into the national context. To be able to analyze not only the content but also the contextual conditions of policy transfer Kingdon's analytical framework of policy analysis is applied.ConclusionsOur analysis suggests that no significant change of health promotion policy resulted from the launch of HFA program neither in Finland nor in Portugal. Instead the changes that occurred in both countries were of incremental nature, in accordance with the earlier policy choices, and the adaptation of HFA program was mainly applied to the areas where there were national traditions. Participation of African social scientists in malaria control: identifying enabling and constraining factors ObjectiveTo examine the enabling and constraining factors that influence African social scientists involvement in malaria control.MethodsConvenience and snowball sampling was used to identify participants. Data collection was conducted in two phases: a mailed survey was followed by in-depth phone interviews with selected individuals chosen from the survey.FindingsMost participants did not necessarily seek malaria as a career path. Having a mentor who provided research and training opportunities, and developing strong technical skills in malaria control and grant or proposal writing facilitated career opportunities in malaria. A paucity of jobs and funding and inadequate technical skills in malaria limited the type and number of opportunities available to social scientists in malaria control.ConclusionUnderstanding the factors that influence job satisfaction, recruitment and retention in malaria control is necessary for better integration of social scientists into malaria control. However, given the wide array of skills that social scientists have and the variety of deadly diseases competing for attention in Sub Saharan Africa, it might be more cost effective to employ social scientists to work broadly on issues common to communicable diseases in general rather than solely on malaria. Particle and Fibre Toxicology, a new journal to meet a real need This Editorial is to announce Particle and Fibre Toxicology, a new Open Access, peer-reviewed, online journal published by BioMed Central. The field of particle and fibre toxicology has a long and famous history stretching from Agricola and Paracelsus in the 15th and 16th century to the challenges of the 21st century-nanoparticles, nanotubes and particulate matter (PM10) to name just three. Throughout this time there has been no single journal dedicated to the toxicology of particles and fibres and this is finally corrected by the launch of Particle and Fibre Toxicology. The rationale for Particle and Fibre Toxicology rests on this need for a single multi-disciplinary journal that can cover all research relevant to particle and fibre toxicology, from Hygiene studies, through particle generation and characterisation, to animal, cell and human toxicology studies, dosimetry and modelling. The editorial also deals with the philosophy and practicalities of Open Access publishing, the journal's peer-review policy and conflict-of-interest. Particle and Fibre Toxicology is aimed at bringing together multi-disciplinary research findings towards a better understanding of how particles and fibres adversely affect the lungs and the body generally. We hope that the launch of the new journal will aid in the advance of this important discipline to the greater benefit of occupational and public health and invite scientists working in this key discipline to submit their research. Breath to breadth: Peter Sydenham's introduction to management of engineering design  Open Access to essential health care information Open Access publishing is a valuable resource for the synthesis and distribution of essential health care information. This article discusses the potential benefits of Open Access, specifically in terms of Low and Middle Income (LAMI) countries in which there is currently a lack of informed health care providers – mainly a consequence of poor availability to information. We propose that without copyright restrictions, Open Access facilitates distribution of the most relevant research and health care information. Furthermore, we suggest that the technology and infrastructure that has been put in place for Open Access could be used to publish download-able manuals, guides or basic handbooks created by healthcare providers in LAMI countries. Factors associated with herbal use among urban multiethnic primary care patients: a cross-sectional survey BackgroundThe use of herbal supplements in the United States has become increasingly popular. The prevalence of herbal use among primary care patients varies in previous studies; the pattern of herbal use among urban racially/ethnically diverse primary care patients has not been widely studied. The primary objectives of this study were to describe the use of herbs by ethnically diverse primary care patients in a large metropolitan area and to examine factors associated with such use. The secondary objective was to investigate perceptions about and patterns of herbal use.MethodsData for a cross-sectional survey were collected at primary care practices affiliated with the Southern Primary-care Urban Research Network (SPUR-Net) in Houston, Texas, from September 2002 to March 2003. To participate in the study, patients had to be at least 18 years of age and visiting one of the SPUR-Net clinics for routine, nonacute care. Survey questions were available in both English and Spanish.ResultsA total of 322 patients who had complete information on race/ethnicity were included in the analysis. Overall, 36% of the surveyed patients (n = 322) indicated use of herbs, with wide variability among ethnic groups: 50% of Hispanics, 50% of Asians, 41% of Whites, and 22% of African-Americans. Significant factors associated with an individual's herbal use were ethnicity other than African-American, having an immigrant family history, and reporting herbal use by other family members. About 40% of survey respondents believed that taking prescription medications and herbal medicines together was more effective than taking either alone. One-third of herbal users reported using herbs on a daily basis. More Whites (67%) disclosed their herbal use to their health-care providers than did African-Americans (45%), Hispanics (31%), or Asians (31%).ConclusionsRacial/ethnic differences in herbal use were apparent among this sample of urban multiethnic adult primary care patients. Associated factors of herbal use were non-African-American ethnicity, immigrant family history, and herbal use among family members. Whereas Hispanics and Asians reported the highest rates of herbal use, they were the least likely to disclose their use to health-care professionals. These findings are important for ensuring medication safety in primary care practices. Virtual differential GPS based on SBAS signal In order to access the satellite-based augmentation system (SBAS) service, the end user needs access to the corresponding geostationary earth orbit (GEO) satellites that broadcast the augmentation information for the region. This is normally not a problem for aviation and maritime applications, because an open sky is typically available for such applications. However, it is difficult to access the GEO satellites directly at high latitudes for land applications because of the low elevation angles to the GEO satellites (e.g., 4–22° in Finland to the European geostationary navigation overlay services [EGNOS] GEO satellites). Results from a driving test of 6,100 km in Finland show that the EGNOS GEO satellites can be accessed in only 51.8% of the driving routes. Furthermore, it is also difficult to access the GEO satellites from city canyons, because the high buildings block the GEO signals. This article presents a solution to solve this problem by creating virtual differential GPS (DGPS) reference stations using the SBAS signal in space (SIS). The basic concept is to convert the SBAS signal to Radio Technical Commission for Maritime Services (RTCM) signals, and broadcast the converted RTCM signals over the wireless Internet using the Internet radio technology. Therefore, access to the SBAS service will not be limited by low elevation angles to the GEO satellites because the converted RTCM data streams are disseminated over the wireless Internet. Furthermore, the SBAS service can then be accessed via a legacy DGPS receiver. Two test cases have been carried out with the prototype system developed by the Finnish Geodetic Institute. The test results showed that the positioning accuracy of the virtual DGPS solution was about 1–2 m at 95%, which was similar to that of the standard WAAS/EGNOS solution. The positioning accuracy was not degraded, compared to that of the standard wide area augmentation system–European geostationary navigation overlay services (WAAS/EGNOS) solution, as long as the distance between the rover receiver and the virtual DGPS reference station was less than 150 km. A preliminary driving test of 400 km carried out in southern Finland showed that the availability of the virtual DGPS solutions was 98.6% along the driving route. Regulation as a barrier to electronic commerce in Europe: the case of the European fund management industry This paper presents results of exploratory research into the question of whether the distribution of investment funds via the Internet in Europe is being deterred by regulatory barriers. The paper examines the theoretical underpinnings behind financial services regulation and then asks if current regulation in place within the European Union and its Member States is consistent with this theory or indeed if regulation is acting as a barrier. Using both primary data and secondary sources, this exploratory study argues that European fund management firms face different regulatory obstacles, often the result of protectionism and the inconsistent application of financial regulations, in different EU countries. As a result, they are unable to reap the benefits that electronic commerce should bring in an industry that appears highly suited for it. Internet Consultations from a Remote Pacific Island: Impact of Digitized Radiologic Images on Referral Decisions A study was carried out to determine whether digitized radiologic images added valuable information to Internet consultations from a remote Pacific Island. Chuuk State Hospital (Federated States of Micronesia) has limited film screen radiology, minimal ultrasound capability, and no radiologist. Providers initiate Web-based referrals for consultation or patient transfer. Digitized images (via low-cost digital camera or flatbed scanner) were uploaded to a Web site. Images were assessed for impact on referral decisions. A radiologist scored image quality and confidence (scale: 1–7). Of 97 referrals with images that were reviewed, 74 (76%) image sets were abnormal, 20 (20%) were normal, and 3 (4%) were indeterminate. Median scores were 4 for image quality and 5 for diagnostic confidence. In most cases with abnormal radiology (52/74, 70%), images were considered valuable. Radiologic images digitized with a low-cost camera or flatbed scanner provided valuable information for decision making in an Internet-based consultation and referral process from a remote, impoverished Pacific Island jurisdiction, despite relatively low image quality. Mobility-Aware Mobile Router Selection and Address Management for IPv6 Network Mobility Network mobility (NEMO) extends IP mobility to moving networks, which are groups of nodes that often constitute a subnet of a mobile router (MR). To realize this collective mobility, there are a number of important issues such as addressing and multihoming. With the proliferation of mobile nodes connected to the Internet, the efficient allocation/deallocation of addresses is becoming a vital requirement. We propose a collaborative address management scheme for network mobility, where the home DHCPv6 agent of a mobile network performs prefix delegation, while the mobile DHCPv6 agent (in the mobile network) allocates the IPv6 address to each mobile node. Also, network mobility with multiple MRs is taken into consideration. To provide a mobile network that has multiple MRs with robust Internet connectivity, we propose mobility-aware mobile router selection schemes. The concept of “mobility awareness” refers to the capability of a moving network in a vehicle (e.g., a train) to pinpoint the most stable Internet connectivity, by choosing the mobile router based on the vehicle’s movement pattern. The simulation shows that the proposed scheme outperforms a round-robin mobile router selection scheme in terms of the amount of carried traffic. Internet Retailing Adoption by Small-to-Medium Sized Enterprises (SMEs): A Multiple-Case Study Despite the proliferation of Internet retailing and the relative novelty and complexity of this phenomenon, very little theory-guided qualitative research has been conducted to improve our understanding of the adoption of Internet retailing project by SMEs. This study presents a theoretical framework for analyzing the adoption of Internet retailing for SMEs. Organizational readiness (IT sophistication, financial resources, and customer readiness), perceived benefits of Internet retailing, and environmental factors are proposed to be the key drivers of adoption of Internet retailing. This research was designed using a qualitative approach through in-depth case studies selected from firms in Hong Kong where there is a proliferation of SMEs. The contextual meaning and practical manifestation of the key adoption factors were captured through the case studies. Our findings provide preliminary support for the proposed research framework, and contribute towards a better conceptual and practical understanding of the main factors driving SMEs to adopt Internet retailing. Contrary to popular belief, customer readiness for Internet shopping was not found to be a significant factor influencing SMEs' decision to adopt Internet retailing. Hernia and the Internet  Consumers' Online Information Search Behavior and the Phenomenon of Search vs. Experience Products This study investigates consumers' importance evaluation and usage of the Internet as an information source, compared with other traditional information sources. The main issue is the extent to which experience products can be transformed so as to be searchable on the Internet. The results of a web-based survey showed that consumers of experience products tended to use more online information than those of search products. Online information sources from other consumers and neutral sources were perceived to be more important and were used more often by the consumers of experience products; whereas retailer/manufacturer websites were perceived to be more useful by consumers of search products. Perceived usefulness, perceived ease-of-use, market mavenism, and usage of offline information sources were also positively related to the usage of online information. Spatial-temporal analysis of regional disparities of internet development in China This paper attempts to summarize the disparities of Internet development in China spatially-temporally. The major objective is to measure the differences between Eastern, Central and Western China. Methods of map presentation, correlation, Lorenz curve, Gini Coefficient and location quotient analysis are conducted in this study. For convenience, the indicator of regional Internet development is simplified as the number of domain names registered under .CN in each province. The data used are collected from the semi-annual surveys of the Statistical Survey Report on the Internet Development in China since 1999. There are several findings: 1) The number of domain names in each province (city) declines gradually from the east to the west. 2) The gap between the highest growth provinces (cities) and the lowest ones is rather large. 3) Although the absolute differences between the eastern, central and western China have been enlarged, the relative differences in each province (city) have remained constant. 4) Provinces (cities) are classified into three types according to location quotient changes, namely, rising type, changeless type and declining type. Compared with industrial and economic growth, Internet sector in the eastern and western China is relatively ascending, while that in the central China is descending. 5) The number of domain names at provincial level is not statistically consistent with GDP. Internet-based DFX for rapid and economical tool/mould making Computer Internet communication technology offers tremendous potential for building computer communication and software platforms for rapid development of OKP products to meet global competition. In the past few years, a variety of Internet-based systems have been developed for the purpose of Rapid Product Development (RPD). Among these systems, Internet-based “Design for X (DFX)” systems have been recognized as efficient tools for implementing concurrent engineering and playing a key role in RPD. Internet-based DFX or IDFX systems can be applied by manufacturing companies to rapidly produce high-quality products with low costs and thus higher profits. However, the implementation of IDFX systems is not an easy task. The reason is that many new techniques are involved in the application of the IDFX and the PD processes are normally sophisticated and vary with product development environments. In this paper, as illustrated by case studies, two typical applications of IDFX, i.e. Internet-based design for manufacture (IDFM) and Internet-based design for cost (IDFC) systems, are proposed for rapid and economical tool/ mould making. The structure and the key models of the systems are discussed. 