Assessment tool for e-services take-up (ATEST): a small Island states context e-Services help in fostering the development of a knowledge society as more citizens and businesses can access, adopt and use government services through online channels. Existing evidence in Mauritius, however, shows low usage of online government services. The goal of this research consisted of developing a framework to guide government agencies in Mauritius in increasing the likelihood of success and uptake of e-Services. This study uses a novel approach, i.e. the Real-Time Delphi method based on a consensus of expert opinions as the main research method to identify critical success factors influencing the user uptake of e-Services. Moreover, it not only proposes a framework as a solution but also operationalises the framework into a tool which can be used in practice to predict the likelihood of take-up of an e-Service implemented by a Government agency. Additionally, the tool was made flexible so that it can be used not only in the Mauritian context but can also be adapted to reflect the context of other countries. Government policy-makers can leverage on the developed framework to formulate better policies and guidelines for the successful take-up of online public services in Mauritius. Furthermore, e-Service owners can use the tool to evaluate their e-Service strategy and identify priority areas where resources and effort have to be dedicated so that their e-Services can be successfully adopted and used by citizens. The validity and effectiveness of the tool was evaluated using existing e-Services in Mauritius having varying user uptake and the results were found to reflect to a great extent the prevailing uptake situation of existing e-Services. Efficient daily news platform generation using natural language processing In today’s digital world, online journalism plays a vital role across various facets of humanity, starting from day-to-day lives, to the extent of deciding presidential elections. Moreover, with the growth in popularity of automation in every possible field known to humans, automated journalism is an important domain to research into. In this, there are many factors that come into play such as relative importance of news and human emotions, apart from just statistical data. To determine the impact that artificial intelligence can have on online journalism, an automatically generating information platform using AI has been developed. The objective is to generate a fully functional information platform that creates content and news articles automatically, which is achieved by analyzing internet trends, mining data related to the trends from other news sources, classifying the data, and categorizing and generating information to resemble those written by human journalists, both grammatically and linguistically. This is achieved with the help of machine learning and NLTK (Natural Language Toolkit) modules for Python which is used to process trends across social media platforms, especially Twitter. Load prediction analysis based on virtual machine execution time using optimal sequencing algorithm in cloud federated environment Virtual machine (VM) prediction and an effective resource management are the attractive areas in the cloud environment. VM prediction is an important task to execute the jobs for delay minimization and unnecessary states avoidance. Cloud computing attracted towards the increase in a number of applications that run on remote servers in parallel manner. Increase in parallelism reduces the CPU utilization adversely. Hence, the proper VM prediction and management are necessary stages in provisioning scheme. Also time required for allocating jobs is more in existing algorithms due to the number of computations involved. Therefore a novel algorithm is required to improve the performance of the job allocation with makespan reduction. In this paper the new algorithm is proposed that includes the VM capacity and execution time for load prediction and performance improvement purpose. Our proposed research work utilizes the VM clustering and optimization algorithms to improve job sequencing performance. The cost computation prior to clustering includes the VM capacity as a major factor. Clustering of VM with high-cost and isolation of low-cost and high-cost clusters reduces the searching time of VM and solve the imbalance state problem in traditional methods. The optimization algorithm with suitable initialization function reduces the time and steps for selection of VM for suitable job. The proposed model outperformance is established by the selected parameters. Managing crowds with technology: cases of Hajj and Kumbh Mela During the first 15 years of this century, seven thousand people have been crushed to death in stampedes. Many would argue that these fatalities could have been prevented by better control and management. Crowd management today needs to minimise the chances of occurrence of stampedes, fires and other disasters and also to deal with the ongoing threat of terrorism and outbreak of communicable diseases like EBOLA, HIV Aids, Swine Influenza H1N1, H1N2, various strands of flu, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and Middle Eastern Respiratory Syndrome (MERS). These challenges have created a need for using all available resources, especially modern tools and technology, when dealing with crowds. Radio Frequency Identification (RFID), which is already benefiting many industrial and government organisations around the world, may be useful for scanning crowded locations and hence in helping to prevent overcrowding. Other wireless technologies should also be considered for possible use in crowded events. Ideally, some of the regular crowded event locations should be transformed into smart cities. In this article we shall discuss different kinds of crowds and technologies for their management. In particular, we shall analyse cases where wireless and mobile technologies can be utilised effectively. The Hajj, which has witnessed several stampedes, is chosen as the case study but most of our findings would be applicable in other events like the Kumbh Mela. Research and implementation of event extraction from twitter using LDA and scoring function With the fast growth of social media, interest is increasing in detecting popular events from tweets. Event extraction is a work which identifies events from tweets or database of tweets. Each and every day, hundreds of megabytes of current stories are being added into the news archives of the major news agencies, containing much important and interesting news. Aim of this event extraction strategy is to extract and retrieve major life events from twitter data. Example of events extraction include seminar presentation, Job opening, Admission in Top universities, new technology etc. The role of this extraction is to collect major life events in the form of retrievable entries that include structured data about major life event name, location and time. Most of previous research on event extraction was mainly on textual level extraction such as News, medical systems, text summarization, whereas less work has been done on event extraction from noisy text such as tweets. For instance, tweets are short and self-contained which make them lack useful information. The target of this research is to develop algorithm and methodology that extract and efficiently conclude major life events extracted from social media. Component based metric for evaluating availability of an information system: an empirical evaluation The aim of the paper is to empirically evaluate the quantitative Availability metric derived from the dependencies among the individual measurable components of an information system. The Availability metric is twofold, based on the operating program and the network delay metric of the information system (for the local bound component composition the availability metric is purely based on the software/operating program, for the remote bound component composition the metric incorporates the delay metric of the network). The metric is used for measuring Availability of an information system from the security perspective, the measurements may be done at the system-design level or for a developed system the metric is applied to the individual working components (software/program code. The system to be evaluated is a network based video monitoring system EES and all the measurements are done using the source code of the system. The steps mentioned in the availability evaluation algorithm are followed in the evaluation process of the system and the final output of the algorithm is the availability score IAV(SyS) for the EES system. The score gives an indication of security of the system with the current design. Wavelet neural network model for network intrusion detection system Network Intrusion Detection is the process of analyzing the network traffic so as to unearth any unsafe and possibly disastrous exchanges happening over the network. In the nature of guaranteeing the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of any networking system, the accurate and speedy classification of the transactions becomes indispensable. The potential problem of all the Intrusion Detection System models at the moment, are lower detection rate for less frequent attack groups, and a higher false alarm rate. In case of networks and simulation works signal processing has been a latest and popular technique. In this study, a hybrid method based on coupling Discrete Wavelet Transforms and Artificial Neural Network (ANN) for Intrusion Detection is proposed. The imbalance of the instances across the data-set was eliminated by SMOTE based oversampling of less frequent class and random under-sampling of the dominant class. A three-layer ANN was used for classification. The experimental results on KDD99 data-set advocate about the fact that the proposed model has higher accuracy, detection rate and at the same time has reduced false alarms making it suitable for real-time networks. Secure routing in mobile Ad hoc networks: a predictive approach In recent years, wireless technologies have gained enormous popularity and used vastly in a variety of applications. Mobile Ad hoc Networks (MANETs) are temporary networks which are built for specific purposes; they do not require any pre-established infrastructure. The dynamic nature of these networks makes them more utilizable in ubiquitous computing. These autonomous systems of wireless mobile nodes can be set up anywhere and anytime. However, due to high mobility, absence of centralized authority and open media nature, MANETs are more vulnerable to various security threats. As a result, they are prone to more security issues as compared to the traditional networks. Ad hoc networks are highly susceptible to various types of attacks. Sequence number attacks are such hazardous attacks which greatly diminish the performance of the network in different scenarios. Sequence number attacks suck some or all data packets and discard them. In past few years, various researchers proposed different solutions for detecting the sequence number attacks. In this paper, first we review notable works done by various researchers to detect sequence number attacks. The review thoroughly presents distinct aspects of the proposed approach. In addition, we propose a proactive predictive approach to mitigate sequence number attacks which discovers misbehaving nodes during route discovery phase. The proposed approach suggests modifications in Ad hoc on-demand distance vector (AODV) routing protocol. Resource provision and QoS support with added security for client side applications in cloud computing Resource provision and security requirement for large-scale cloud applications is a challenging issue while design of any web based client oriented business application. Extensive research on various issues in real environment has reported that on-demand provision of resources in cloud where connectivity issue persists for heterogeneous communication channel, requires developers to consider network infrastructure and the environment, which is beyond certain control. In wireless mobile network, the network condition is always changeable and cannot be predicted neither controlled. In this paper resource provisioning and checking of continuous availability of resource to the clients has been carried out using a web based application software that uses cloud servers and data centers. Secondly, an improved security feature has been added to the mobile stations in a registered group to eliminate the unnecessary utilization of resource by unauthorized station which maliciously consumes bandwidth and other facility provided by the cloud provider. Simulation results show that the proposed system performs better than other similar approaches when compared with specific network parameters. Optimizing semantic LSTM for spam detection Classifying spam is a topic of ongoing research in the area of natural language processing, especially with the increase in the usage of the Internet for social networking. This has given rise to the increase in spam activity by the spammers who try to take commercial or non-commercial advantage by sending the spam messages. In this paper, we have implemented an evolving area of technique known as deep learning technique. A special architecture known as Long Short Term Memory (LSTM), a variant of the Recursive Neural Network (RNN) is used for spam classification. It has an ability to learn abstract features unlike traditional classifiers, where the features are hand-crafted. Before using the LSTM for classification task, the text is converted into semantic word vectors with the help of word2vec, WordNet and ConceptNet. The classification results are compared with the benchmark classifiers like SVM, Naïve Bayes, ANN, k-NN and Random Forest. Two corpuses are used for comparison of results: SMS Spam Collection dataset and Twitter dataset. The results are evaluated using metrics like Accuracy and F measure. The evaluation of the results shows that LSTM is able to outperform traditional machine learning methods for detection of spam with a considerable margin. The attack and defense of weakest-link networks We experimentally test the qualitatively different equilibrium predictions of two theoretical models of attack and defense of a weakest-link network of targets. In such a network, the attacker’s objective is to assault at least one target successfully and the defender’s objective is to defend all targets. The models differ in how the conflict at each target is modeled—specifically, the lottery and auction contest success functions (CSFs). Consistent with equilibrium in the auction CSF model, attackers utilize a stochastic “guerrilla-warfare” strategy, which involves attacking at most one target arbitrarily with a random level of force. Inconsistent with equilibrium in the lottery CSF model, attackers use the “guerrilla-warfare” strategy and assault only one target instead of the equilibrium “complete-coverage” strategy that attacks all targets. Consistent with equilibrium in both models, as the attacker’s valuation increases, the average resource expenditure, the probability of winning, and the average payoff increase (decrease) for the attacker (defender). Radon, an invisible killer in Canadian homes: perceptions of Ottawa-Gatineau residents ObjectivesCanadians have reason to care about indoor air quality as they spend over 90% of the time indoors. Although indoor radon causes more deaths than any other environmental hazard, only 55% of Canadians have heard of it, and of these, 6% have taken action. The gap between residents’ risk awareness and adoption of actual protective behaviour presents a challenge to public health practitioners. Residents’ perception of the risk should inform health communication that targets motivation for action. In Canada, research about the public perception of radon health risk is lacking. The aim of this study was to describe residents’ perceptions of radon health risks and, applying a theoretical lens, evaluate how perceptions correlate with protection behaviours.MethodsWe conducted a mixed online and face-to-face survey (N = 557) with both homeowners and tenants in Ottawa-Gatineau census metropolitan area. Descriptive, correlation, and regression analyses addressed the research questions.ResultsCompared to the gravity of the risk, public perception remained low. While 32% of residents expressed some concern about radon health risk, 12% of them tested and only 3% mitigated their homes for radon. Residents’ perceptions of the probability and severity of the risk, social influence, care for children, and smoking in home correlated significantly with their intention to test; these factors also predicted their behaviours for testing and mitigation.ConclusionHealth risk communication programs need to consider the affective aspects of risk perception in addition to rational cognition to improve protection behaviours. A qualitative study can explore the reasons behind the gap between testing and mitigation.RésuméObjectifsLes Canadiens ont de bonnes raisons de se préoccuper de la qualité de l’air intérieur, car ils passent plus de 90 % de leur temps à l’intérieur. Bien que le radon domiciliaire (RD) cause plus de décès que tout autre risques environnementaux, seulement 55 % des Canadiens en ont déjà entendu parler, et d’entre eux seulement 6 % ont pris des mesures concrètes pour l’éradiquer. L’écart entre la sensibilisation aux risques et la prise de mesures de protection réelles par les résidents constitue un défi pour les professionnels de la santé publique. La perception des résidents face aux risques associés au RD devrait guider la communication en matière de santé pour cibler la motivation. Au Canada, très peu d’études portant sur les perceptions de la population face aux risques associés au RD ont été réalisées. Le but de cette étude est de décrire les perceptions qu’entretiennent les occupants de bâtiments résidentiels face aux risques pour la santé associée au RD et évaluer comment ces perceptions sont corrélées aux comportements de protection, notamment en appliquant la théorie de la motivation et de la protection.MéthodesNous avons réalisé une enquête mixte en ligne et en personne (n = 557) auprès de propriétaires et de locataires de la région d’Ottawa-Gatineau. Des analyses descriptives, corrélationnelles et des analyses de régressions ont été effectuées en fonction de nos questions de recherche.RésultatsEn comparaison à la gravité des risques, les perceptions du public demeurent faibles. Bien que 32 % des résidents ont exprimé des préoccupations au sujet du danger que représente le radon pour la santé, seulement 12 % d’entre eux ont réalisé des tests à domicile et seulement 3 % ont pris des actions concrètes pour réduire les risques. Les perceptions des résidents quant à la probabilité et à la gravité des risques du RD sur leur santé, l’influence sociale, les soins prodigués aux enfants, ainsi que le tabagisme à la maison étaient significativement corrélées avec leur intention de réaliser un test. Ces facteurs ont également prédit leurs comportements en lien avec l’utilisation du test et les actions entreprises pour diminuer les risques.ConclusionLes programmes de communication sur les risques du RD sur la santé doivent tenir compte des aspects affectifs associés à la perception des risques, en plus de tenir compte du niveau de connaissances pour améliorer les comportements de protection. Une recherche de nature qualitative serait nécessaire pour explorer les raisons qui expliquent l’écart entre le taux d’utilisation des tests de détection et les actions concrètes pour diminuer les risques. Program implementation and effectiveness of a national workplace physical activity intervention: UPnGO with ParticipACTION InterventionUPnGO with ParticipACTION (UPnGO) is a 6-week workplace physical activity (PA) initiative aiming to increase habitual PA (steps) during the workday. Core intervention components included (1) self-monitoring of steps and action planning behaviours using a Web/mobile app with incentives and (2) organizational support, which included senior management’s role modeling and endorsement of the program.Research questionWhat is the effectiveness and levels of implementation of the UPnGO intervention? What is the relationship between effectiveness and levels of implementation?MethodsA single-arm, pre-/post-test study design was used. Participants were 660 employees from nine organizations who had valid step data and complete socio-demographic information at baseline. The primary outcome (mean daily steps) was assessed by Garmin VivoFit. Using the usage data from the UPnGO web-based system, a composite score for levels of implementation was calculated based on participant’s compliance with the self-monitoring component and senior management’s role modeling. Associations of interest were analyzed using linear mixed-effects models.ResultsLevels of implementation were highly variable across organizations (mean = 68.22% ± 18.75, range = 19.8 to 100%). A significant Time × Implementation (IM) status interaction effect was observed. When stratified by IM status, a significant increase in mean daily steps at week 6 was found among participants in the high (β = 540.01 ± 202.69, p = 0.011) but not low (β = − 81.54 ± 291.96, p = 0.78) implementation group.ConclusionFindings suggest significant intervention effects in increasing average daily steps among participants who were exposed to optimal levels of implementation (~ 70%). UPnGO may be a scalable workplace PA intervention at a national level, although this needs further verification with more rigorous study designs.RésuméInterventionUPnGO with ParticipACTION (UPnGO) est une initiative d’activité physique (AP) en milieu de travail d’une durée de 6 semaines qui vise à augmenter l’AP habituelle (le nombre de pas) durant la journée de travail. Les éléments centraux de l’intervention étaient : 1) l’autosurveillance des pas et des comportements de planification d’actions avec une appli Web/mobile assortie d’incitations et 2) un appui organisationnel incluant l’exemple de la haute direction et son appui moral au programme.Questions de rechercheQuelle est l’efficacité et quels sont les niveaux de mise en œuvre de l’intervention UPnGO? Quelle est la relation entre l’efficacité et les niveaux de mise en œuvre?MéthodeUn protocole d’étude pré- et post-test sur groupe unique a été utilisé. Les participants étaient 660 employés de neuf organismes pour lesquels il existait au départ des données validées sur le nombre de pas et un profil sociodémographique complet. Le résultat principal (les pas moyens quotidiens) a été calculé avec l’appareil VivoFit de Garmin. À l’aide des données d’utilisation du système en ligne UPnGO, une note composite pour le niveau de mise en œuvre a été calculée d’après la conformité des participants à l’élément d’autosurveillance et l’exemple de la haute direction. Les associations intéressantes ont été analysées à l’aide de modèles linéaires à effets mixtes.RésultatsLes niveaux de mise en œuvre ont beaucoup varié d’un organisme à l’autre (moyenne = 68,22 % ± 18,75, intervalle = 19,8 % à 100 %). Un effet d’interaction significatif Temps x Mise en œuvre (MEO) a été observé. Après stratification selon le statut de MEO, une hausse significative des pas moyens quotidiens a été constatée la 6e semaine chez les participants du groupe de mise en œuvre élevée (β = 540,01 ± 202,69, p = 0,011), mais non dans ceux du groupe où la mise en œuvre était faible (β = −81,54 ± 291,96, p = 0,78).ConclusionCes résultats indiquent que l’intervention a eu des effets sensibles en augmentant les pas moyens quotidiens des participants exposés à des niveaux optimaux de mise en œuvre (~ 70 %). UPnGO pourrait être une intervention d’AP en milieu de travail extensible à l’échelle nationale, mais cela nécessiterait de plus amples vérifications avec des protocoles d’étude plus rigoureux. Exploring the drivers of technology acceptance: a study of Nepali school students The question of what drives learners to adopt and use certain technologies over others, generally referred to as technology acceptance in the literature, is of interest to educational technology researchers, to policymakers, and developers in educational institutions. Technology acceptance models can inform adoption and implementation decisions. Despite the growing literature on technology acceptance, there is less evidence from countries with the lowest economic development indicators such as Nepal. The present study investigates the factors motivating technology use in the Nepali context. The study is grounded in an extended technology acceptance model (TAM) applied to using the internet for learning (not limited to online learning environments). The data were collected from 126 school students in Nepal (Mage = 15.19). We found empirical support for our proposed research model. There were strong relationships between computer self-efficacy and perceived enjoyment, and perceived enjoyment and behavioral intention. We found no influence of perceived usefulness or attitude on behavioral intention, contrary to theorized relationships and the empirical literature. Our findings show that the extended TAM translates to understudied populations such as Nepali secondary school students and suggests that it is sensitive to local situational differences that influence technology acceptance behaviors. Patterns of knowledge sharing in an online affinity space for diabetes Our research explores how people learn as part of everyday contexts and settings and specifically, we explore the discourse of an online affinity space for diabetics, where participants engage in knowledge sharing and storytelling around disease management. We frame the analyses by examining participants’ meaning making discourse for advancing knowledge and practices situated in everyday, practical activity. Social network analyses were conducted to visualize the structure of the community. Analyses of discourse in the affinity space revealed three primary patterns of knowledge sharing: (a) sharing information; (b) extending perspectives; and (c) communicating repertoires of practice. Our analyses describe recurring narratives, discourse patterns, and constructions, which can be seen as part of the cultural model that defines the diabetes affinity space. We found that personalized storytelling, which included sharing of personal experiences and data such as blood glucose levels, acted as a primary pattern of language use. Our results contribute to an understanding of the role of discourse in supporting personal and community practices and learning in online affinity spaces, as well as implications for the design of technology in supporting knowledge sharing in such spaces. Breaking anonymity of some recent lightweight RFID authentication protocols Due to their impressive advantages, Radio Frequency IDentification (RFID) systems are ubiquitously found in various novel applications. These applications are usually in need of quick and accurate authentication or identification. In many cases, it has been shown that if such systems are not properly designed, an adversary can cause security and privacy concerns for end-users. In order to deal with these concerns, impressive endeavors have been made which have resulted in various RFID authentications being proposed. In this study, we analyze three lightweight RFID authentication protocols proposed in Wireless Personal Communications (2014), Computers & Security (2015) and Wireless Networks (2016). We show that none of the studied protocols provides the desired security and privacy required by the end-users. We present various security and privacy attacks such as secret parameter reveal, impersonation, DoS, traceability, and forward traceability against the studied protocols. Our attacks are mounted in the Ouafi–Phan RFID formal privacy model which is a modified version of well-known Juels–Weis privacy model. 
Indoor navigation systems based on data mining techniques in internet of things: a survey Internet of Things (IoT) is turning into an essential part of daily life, and numerous IoT-based scenarios will be seen in future of modern cities ranging from small indoor situations to huge outdoor environments. In this era, navigation continues to be a crucial element in both outdoor and indoor environments, and many solutions have been provided in both cases. On the other side, recent smart objects have produced a substantial amount of various data which demands sophisticated data mining solutions to cope with them. This paper presents a detailed review of previous studies on using data mining techniques in indoor navigation systems for the loT scenarios. We aim to understand what type of navigation problems exist in different IoT scenarios with a focus on indoor environments and later on we investigate how data mining solutions can provide solutions on those challenges. Technological aspects of WBANs for health monitoring: a comprehensive review According to the World Health Organization, most of the world population is affected by chronic diseases, obesity, cardiovascular diseases and diabetes while another dominant problem is of aging population. Thus, it is desirable to have cost effective solutions for health monitoring, especially for countries that have minimum conventionally trained healthcare staff and infrastructure. Healthcare has shifted from hospital dominant services to patient dominant services which has thrived WBANs to provide ubiquitous health monitoring by virtue of wearable or implantable sensor nodes that commonly monitor biological signals. As the society becomes more health conscious, WBANs have the potential to revolutionize the way people integrate their health and information technology. Hence, WBANs are desired to strengthen conventional healthcare systems. Notwithstanding the current achievements, technological advances, proposed solutions and commercialized products; WBANs still experience many obstacles in their foolproof adoption. This paper surveys the plethora of WBAN applications and network architecture in detail used for data collection, data transmission and data analysis that form sensor analyst system in the realm of Internet of Things. Wireless communicational technologies are also discussed in this paper. Also, we have categorized the routing protocols and have provided with their critical qualitative analysis. Towards the end we discuss several projects in the field of WBANs and some open research areas. These findings on how the sensor nodes, newest routing protocols and data analysis techniques influence ubiquitous health monitoring sets this survey apart from the already existing surveys on WBANs. Developing Deprivation Index for Children Taking into Account of Adaptive Preferences The objective of this paper is 1) to develop child deprivation index using data collected from children themselves, and 2) to access if deprivation indexes which take into account of adaptive preference are better suited in measuring child deprivation than traditional deprivation indexes. Child deprivation index using data collected from children themselves has some advantages because child utility and his/her perception of it might be different from the perception by the parent. The paper also investigates “adaptive preference” of children. Possibility of adaptive preference has been pointed out in numerous literature early on, but whether children also exhibit “adaptive preference” behavior is still up to debate. This paper adds an evidence of adaptive preference among poor children and suggest modifications to the traditional material deprivation index, using child answered survey data from children living in metropolitan Tokyo. From the analysis, there are some evidences that “adaptive preference” behavior is present among 13 year-old children. Furthermore, the analysis shows that the “adaptive preference” is not seen in all items, and not among younger children. Such result suggests that while selecting items to be included in the deprivation index, it may be wise to treat items with high degree of “adaptive preference” differently from the items without “adaptive preference”. However, the analysis shows such modified indexes do show higher consistency, but do not necessary predict child outcomes associated with child poverty better than the traditional one. FUZA: An Algorithm for Definition of Reliable Virtual Networks to the Edge as a Service Paradigm Edge as a Service (EaaS) is a promising approach to increase the management capacity of Internet Service Providers (ISPs) and to support QoS/QoE for their clients. EaaS uses Virtual Networks (VNs) to ease the management of ISPs. Thus, EaaS needs an algorithm to define virtual topologies for the VNs considering the resource utilization, the energy consumption and the service delivery reliability. Within this context, this paper presents Fuzzy for Allocation (FUZA) algorithm to define reliable virtual topologies for EaaS. FUZA is based on a fuzzy system and uses energy consumption and bandwidth availability to define the most suitable virtual topology for the VN requested. The results suggest that the proposed algorithm can deploy reliable VNs, while improving bandwidth utilization and energy consumption of the network infrastructure. Online Tor Privacy Breach Through Website Fingerprinting Attack Tor is one of the most widely used anonymization networks based on onion router that it preserves user’s privacy and secure data flow over the Internet communications. Due to the growing utilization of Tor, Identifying its weaknesses and fixing them is crucial. This study focuses on the website fingerprinting attack and offers a new procedure based on FFT to calculate the similarity distance between two instances and form a distance matrix. By applying the proposed method, we demonstrate that either accuracy grows significantly or the time complexity reduces such that it is applicable in an online manner. In order to evaluate the capability of the proposed method to defeat user privacy, we applied it in an open-world scenario for 100 target websites and achieved a TP rate of over 96%, while the FP rate is 0%, compared to the best of 85% TP rate with a FP rate of 0.6% in the existing works. In a closed-world scenario, we attained an accuracy of over 97% that compared to a similar study, it shows a meaningful improvement. In addition, a new model based on the combination of open and closed-world scenarios is also presented. In this model, the time complexity of the preprocessing and visited website detection stages are reduced by a factor of 60 and 465, times respectively, compared to previous studies. By using this model, it is possible to manage the detection procedure in an online process, providing an update mechanism for distance matrix in case of immediate variations. The Analytical Model for Distributed Computer System Parameters Control Based on Multi-factoring Estimations In this paper the approach and mechanisms for the complex analysis of the Distributed Computer System (DCS) parameters taking into account several criteria DCS functioning to select an efficient configuration of DCS resources are suggested. There are the analytical evaluations of DCS parameters such as: performance, security, reliability, data transfer rate, depending on the DCS dimension (number of nodes) taking into account the specific of their realization. The complex analytical model for the DCS parameters is suggested. The model allows estimate the parameters of DCS, depending on the number of nodes. The suggested model allows evaluate the impact of the number of nodes on the parameters of its functionality. In addition, this model on the design phase allows determine the DCS parameters for a certain number of DCS nodes. The suggested model allows set a certain level for the normalized DCS parameters, which should meet the all four parameters of the DCS, and to get the set of nodes, which should form the DCS cluster. Identify Congested Links with Network Tomography Under Multipath Routing Identifying congested links accurately to ensure the Service Level Agreements is an important but challenging task, since it is costly or even practically unfeasible to monitor massive interior links directly for large networks. Network tomography has been proposed to overcome this problem by using end-to-end (path) measurements. However, most of existing tomographic methods only focus on the loss performance degradation, while paying much less attention the fact that network congestion will also greatly worsen the delay performance. Nevertheless, most of them normally work under single-path routing, which may also get violated in today’s Internet as multipath routing is increasingly common. In this paper, we consider the problem of using end-to-end measurements to identify congested links when multipath routing is employed in a non-tree network. Firstly, we use both link delay variances and link loss rates to model the system constraints between end- to-end paths and the interior links, and transfer the issue of congested link identification as an optimization problem. By theoretically demonstrating that the link delay variances are identifiable from the end-to-end delay measurements with certain topology conditions, we further prove that the above optimization problem is a Non-deterministic Polynomial-time hard (NP-hard) problem. Then in order to solve such an NP-hard problem, two greedy algorithms based on bool and additive congestion statuses are proposed. Lastly, simulation studies show that with extra delay constraints, our proposed algorithms are able to achieve better identification performances than existing methods under multipath routing. Difficulties in defining mobile learning: analysis, design characteristics, and implications Mobile learning, or m-learning, has become an umbrella term for the integration of mobile computing devices within teaching and learning. In the literature, however, use of the terms has been unsystematic. The purpose of this article is to critically examine the principles of mobile learning. First, I examine the extant literature with regard to defining mobile learning. Four definitions of mobile learning categories are described: (1) relationship to distance education and elearning, (2) exploitation of devices and technologies, (3) mediation with technology, and (4) nomadic nature of learner and learning. Second, in an effort to provide a basis on which to ground future mobile learning research, I propose a framework of design characteristics for mobile learning environments. Seven design characteristics are identified and discussed. Finally, I present implications for future research and instructional design. This paper contributes to the field of mobile learning by providing researchers more precise ways to identify and describe the characteristics of mobile learning environments, as well as describe the attributes of successful mobile learners. QoS and Cost-Aware Protocol Selection for Next Generation Wireless Network In the growing area of Internet of Things (IoT), mobility management protocols become necessary because in today’s environment everything is movable so there is no dominance of static nodes. Mobility is a key aspect for the next-generation wireless network. So, mobility management mechanism is necessary for providing the seamless handoff to end user regardless of their location. Thus, Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) has developed the Mobile IPv6 (MIPv6) for providing the mobility facility. But MIPv6 is not able to provide the mobility for next-generation wireless network due to large packet loss and high latency. Thus, Proxy MIPv6 (PMIPv6) is developed for providing the mobility for the next-generation network, but it has some limitation as well. In this paper, firstly a survey of various types of protocols based on PMIPv6 protocol is given. Then protocol is selected based on the Quality of Service (QoS) and signaling cost parameters. Two applications are considered i.e. streaming and background traffic class. For streaming traffic class, QoS (handoff latency) parameter is preferred and for background traffic class, signaling cost is preferred. Analytical Hierarchical Process (AHP) method is used for assigning the weight of different traffic class because user`s preferences play an important role in the decision-making process as it enhances the quality of experience of the user. Then multi-attribute decision making (MADM) and prospect theory are used for selection of protocols. Results show that different protocols are selected for different applications. The performance of MADM and prospect theory is shown in terms of accuracy. The Virtual Arena: A Call for a New Domain of Child Subjective Well-Being The purpose of this qualitative study was to explore subjective perceptions, perspectives and ascribed meanings of well-being among children aged 8–12 in diverse communities in Israel. Thirty five children participated in the study in eight focus group interviews. One major theme that emerged from the focus group analysis is children’s lived experiences in the virtual arena, including new media and social media (e.g., Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp). Within this theme, three main sub-themes were identified, delineating different aspects of children’s lives in the virtual arena: between risk and protection, negotiating peer relationships, and the absence or engagement of adults. Our findings point to both positive and negative aspects of our participants’ experiences in the virtual arena and indicate the centrality and significance of technology in their lives, especially as an arena through which children communicate with friends and family and in which their social relationships are practiced. Based on our findings, we propose that the virtual arena has become central to children’s lives and, as such, can be considered a new domain in exploring children’s subjective well-being. An Investigation of Sources of Science Teachers’ Practical Knowledge of Teaching with Practical Work Through a questionnaire survey, this study aims to investigate the contributions of different sources in developing science teachers’ practical knowledge of teaching with practical work. The framework of this study is based on the conceptualization of PCK and ten possible sources of science teachers’ PCK related to teaching with practical work. The findings of this study can be summed in the following aspects. Firstly, among the ten possible sources, overall, the more important sources are “personal teaching practices and reflection” and “informal exchanges with colleagues”; the important sources are “reading teaching materials,” “learning from online resources,” and “pre-service training experience,” while the least important ones are “in-service training experience” and “experience as primary and secondary school student.” Secondly, for the five components of PCK of teaching with practical work, the contributions of the ten sources are different. Thirdly, three sources are found to be significantly different between teachers who have pre-service training experience and those who do not have. They are “classroom observation” (goals toward practical work), “in-service training experience” (laboratorial curriculum materials; instructional strategies), and “reading professional journals” (teaching assessment). In the last part of this paper, some explanations are provided for these findings and the limitation of this study is discussed. Robust resource allocation scheme under channel uncertainties for LTE-A systems Nowadays, resource allocation is one of the major problems in the cellular networks. Due to the increasing number of autonomous heterogeneous devices in future mobile networks, a proper scheduling scheme is required to provide the adequate resources for the service flow. However, provisioning quality-of-service (QoS) for real-time applications with the constraint on transporting delay is hard to achieve without compromising other QoS parameters. In this paper, an intelligent QoS-aware bandwidth allocation solution is proposed for the uplink traffic when the channel condition is uncertain. The system is designed based on a specific maximum latency assurance for real-time applications as well as considering fairness to the throughput of non-real-time services. The scheduling system employs a channel-aware Kalman filter based interval type-2 fuzzy logic controller to estimate channel uncertainty as well as satisfying the QoS requirements for user equipment. Through simulations, the performance of the proposed system in terms of optimal bandwidth allocation, bandwidth wastage, fairness, jitters, various delays and throughputs for delay sensitive and delay tolerant services is analyzed. The numerical results show that the proposed scheme provides reliable scheduling for real-time services without harming the performance of non-real-time QoS parameters. A generic framework for optimizing performance metrics by tuning parameters of clustering protocols in WSNs Wireless sensor network (WSN) is a key technology trend in emerging internet of things paradigms which are commonly used for application areas such as smart-cities, smart-grids, wearables, and connected health. There is a wealth of literature which considers various cluster-based routing protocols such as LEACH, HEED, and UHEED where these protocols are compared in terms of the network lifetime and/or the total number of packets successfully received by the base station under various operational conditions. While existing studies present various approaches to form WSN clusters in the most efficient way, various parameters are manually-assigned their values such as the radius of the cluster, the number of nodes in the cluster, and the number of clusters that should be formed to reach the base station. The choice of correct parameters is essential for reaching the most efficient configuration, however existing studies do not specify a systematic way for tuning these parameters. In other words, the optimization of cluster-based WSNs through fine tuning of related system parameters is not considered in the existing studies. We believe that presenting a generic approach to tune the parameters of clustering algorithms in order to optimize the performance metrics of WSNs is a significant contribution. In this study a systematic and an efficient method is presented to tune the parameters of clustering and routing protocols. Instead of brute force, or trial and error approaches, simulated annealing and K-beams algorithms are adopted together with discrete event system simulator OMNET++ with Castalia Framework. Results are presented comparatively with brute force approach in order to show the efficiency of the new approach in finding the optimum configuration in terms of energy efficiency as well as the rate of successfully received packets. Performance evaluation of broadcasting strategies in cognitive radio networks Broadcasting is an important phenomenon, because it serves as simplest mode of communication in a network, via which each node disseminates information to their neighboring nodes simultaneously. Broadcasting is widely used in various kind of networks, such as wireless sensor networks, wireless networks, and ad-hoc networks. Similarly, in cognitive radio networks (CRNs), broadcasting is also used to perform many tasks including neighbor discovery, spectrum mobility, spectrum sharing, and dissemination of message throughout the network. The traditional approach that has been used as broadcasting in CRNs is simple flooding in which a message is disseminated in the network without any strategy check. Simple flooding can cause major setbacks in the network, such as excessive redundant rebroadcasts, and collision drops which collectively are termed as broadcast storm problem. To reduce the effects of broadcast storm problem in wireless networks, we propose and compare four broadcasting strategies for cognitive radio networks in this paper. These four strategies are: (1) probability based, (2) counter based, (3) distance based, and (4) area based. Extensive NS-2 based simulations are carried out on different threshold values for each broadcasting strategy. After experimental evaluation, it is demonstrated that counter based broadcasting surpasses other broadcasting strategies by achieving maximum delivery ratio of 60% and by decreasing redundant rebroadcasts and collision drops up to 44 and 37% respectively. A fuzzy geographical routing approach to support real-time multimedia transmission for vehicular ad hoc networks Vehicular ad hoc networks known by their greatly active topology have given rise to new challenges related to routing protocols, issues of less concern in infrastructure-based networks or even in mobile ad hoc networks. Indeed, the high revocability of network topology makes the satisfaction of driver’s requirements very arduous, especially with multimedia applications that need strict quality of service (QoS) support. The main purpose of this paper is to promote real time video traffic by maximizing user gratification while keeping a good QoS. Thus, based on the well-known greedy perimeter stateless routing (GPSR) protocol, we propose a new approach called fuzzy geographical routing (FzGR) that incorporates two fuzzy logic usages. The first takes into consideration three input parameters of QoS: the delay, the size of buffer and the throughput, while it outputs a single relevant metric to prioritize the next-hop with lower concern. The other fuzzy system aims at preserving the concept of basic GPSR by considering the distance measure between each next-hop and the final destination. The proposal has been evaluated and compared to the GPSR using a rigorous metrics analysis regarding QoS and quality of experience. Our extensive experimental results using several simulators (e.g., NS-2, VanetMobiSim and Evalvid), show that FzGR has the ability to increase the performance of the network. Search bias quantification: investigating political bias in social media and web search Users frequently use search systems on the Web as well as online social media to learn about ongoing events and public opinion on personalities. Prior studies have shown that the top-ranked results returned by these search engines can shape user opinion about the topic (e.g., event or person) being searched. In case of polarizing topics like politics, where multiple competing perspectives exist, the political bias in the top search results can play a significant role in shaping public opinion towards (or away from) certain perspectives. Given the considerable impact that search bias can have on the user, we propose a generalizable search bias quantification framework that not only measures the political bias in ranked list output by the search system but also decouples the bias introduced by the different sources—input data and ranking system. We apply our framework to study the political bias in searches related to 2016 US Presidential primaries in Twitter social media search and find that both input data and ranking system matter in determining the final search output bias seen by the users. And finally, we use the framework to compare the relative bias for two popular search systems—Twitter social media search and Google web search—for queries related to politicians and political events. We end by discussing some potential solutions to signal the bias in the search results to make the users more aware of them. Managing a World of Things: A Report on APNOMS2017 This article presents a report on APNOMS2017, which was held on Sept. 27–29, 2017 in Seoul, Korea. The theme of APNOMS2017 was “Managing a World of Things.” Children’s Understandings of Well-Being in Global and Local Contexts: Theoretical and Methodological Considerations for a Multinational Qualitative Study Research on child well-being is an expanding international, inter- and trans-disciplinary field of research that has developed significantly within the last decades. While the achievements in the field are immense, the developments raise new challenges for the child well-being research field. In this paper three major challenges will be highlighted and discussed: Firstly, challenges regarding how to define well-being theoretically, secondly; challenges associated with integrating children’s perspectives in research; and thirdly, challenges of engaging with processes of globalisation and trans-national contexts which impact on children’s well-being and how we engage with these processes as researchers. We then outline a comparative qualitative study “Children’s understandings of well-being - global and local contexts” that attempts to respond to these challenges: by starting with children’s constructions of well-being as a basis for analysing the normativity of constructions of well-being; by explicitly accounting for the context in which these constructions are developed -embedding children’s perspectives within the social orders they are part of and contribute to; and by empirically analysing the relevance of multi-scalar contexts as social constructions for children’s understandings and experiences of well-being. The Impact of TOM on Prices in the US Housing Market Search theory shows that real property prices and marketing durations are simultaneously determined and positively related. Yet, empirical studies find positive, negative, and insignificant parameter estimates on the time-on-the-market (TOM) variable in price models. Using a dataset well suited to the research question, this article investigates reasons for the divergence between the theoretical and empirical results. Our test equations examine the quality of instrumental variables, severe overpricing, atypicality, structure quality, loss aversion, market tightness as well as measures unique to our data such as sellers’ income levels, reasons for sale, and urgency. We find that weak instrumental variables account for the varied empirical relations between transaction prices and TOM. Comprehensive review for energy efficient hierarchical routing protocols on wireless sensor networks In recent years, wireless sensor networks (WSNs) have played a major role in applications such as tracking and monitoring in remote environments. Designing energy efficient protocols for routing of data events is a major challenge due to the dynamic topology and distributed nature of WSNs. Main aim of the paper is to discuss hierarchical routing protocols in order to improve the energy efficiency and network lifetime. This paper provides a discussion about hierarchical energy efficient routing protocols based on classical and swarm intelligence approach. The routing protocols belonging to both categories can be summarized according to energy efficiency, data aggregation, location awareness, QoS, scalability, load balancing, fault tolerance, query based and multipath. A systematic literature review has been conducted for hierarchical energy efficient routing protocols reported from 2012 to 2017. This survey provides a technical direction for researchers on how to develop routing protocols. Finally, research gaps in the reviewed protocols and the potential future aspects have been discussed.Graphical Abstract The Impact of Student-Constructed Animation on Middle School Students’ Learning about Plate Tectonics There is a need for research-informed instructional approaches that promote school students’ deep conceptual understanding of abstract geological concepts. Given that a type of learner-constructed stop-motion animation, ‘slowmation’, has been shown to offer affordances for learning in science preservice teacher education, we extended its application to middle school students and investigated the impact of the construction process on students’ learning about plate tectonics. Drawing upon theoretical notions of knowledge reconstruction, this mixed methods case study explored two research questions that concerned the extent to which the slowmation construction process influenced students’ conceptual understanding about plate tectonics and how students’ learning was facilitated by the slowmation construction process. The participants were ninth grade students (n = 52) who constructed slowmations in small groups to explain the geological processes that occur at tectonic plate boundaries. Data were generated using a two-tiered multiple-choice test instrument, the GeoQuiz, which we designed and validated, and audio-recordings of students working together as they researched, planned, and constructed their slowmations. A significant improvement was found in students’ GeoQuiz scores, from pretest to posttest, which indicates their conceptual understanding improved over the course of the construction process. Analysis of the qualitative data found that students’ ideas increased in sophistication through ‘teachable moments’, wherein students learnt through dialogic teacher-student and student-student exchanges. We assert that such exchanges ought to be viewed as an integral part of the slowmation construction process itself. While the study’s findings support existing research that suggests representation-based activities are effective for student learning of geological phenomena, they also raise important questions about how to best engage middle school students in the construction of a slowmation. Bio-inspired power control and channel allocation for cellular networks with D2D communications With the tremendous increment of traffic in the next generation mobile networks, device to device (D2D) communication is proposed to relieve the traffic burden of the base station and improve the overall network capacity. It supports direct communications between devices and could reuse the resources of cellular users (CUs). Despite the advantages, D2D communications bring great challenges in interference management. In this paper, we study the power control and channel allocation problems in three scenarios: (1) one CU and one D2D pair; (2) one CU and multiple D2D pairs; (3) multiple CUs and multiple D2D pairs. The goal is to coordinate the mutual interferences and maximize the overall network capacity. We derive sufficient conditions to guarantee the efficiency of D2D communications in scenarios with one CU and one D2D pair. We propose the bio-inspired PSO-P power control algorithm for the scenarios with one CU and multiple D2D pairs, and the PSO-CP algorithm for the scenarios with multiple CUs and multiple D2D pairs to jointly assign channels and powers. Simulation results show that the proposed algorithms are efficient in improving the overall network capacity. Those were the days: learning to rank social media posts for reminiscence Social media posts are a great source for life summaries aggregating activities, events, interactions and thoughts of the last months or years. 
They can be used for personal reminiscence as well as for keeping track with developments in the lives of not-so-close friends. One of the core challenges of automatically creating such summaries is to decide which posts are memorable, i.e., should be considered for retention and which ones to forget. To address this challenge, we design and conduct user evaluation studies and construct a corpus that captures human expectations towards content retention. We analyze this corpus to identify a small set of seed features that are most likely to characterize memorable posts. Next, we compile a broader set of features that are leveraged to build general and personalized machine-learning models to rank posts for retention. By applying feature selection, we identify a compact yet effective subset of these features. The models trained with the presented feature sets outperform the baseline models exploiting an intuitive set of temporal and social features. Trust Establishment and Estimation in Cloud Services: A Systematic Literature Review Cloud computing has increasingly attracted a large number of entrepreneurs to deploy innovative web services to expand the horizon of their businesses. The selection of trustworthy services, by considering the adequate QoS parameters, is imperative for the cloud service consumers to fulfill their requirements. Over the years, many studies have been carried out to establish trust between service providers and cloud service consumers. The findings of these studies need to be analyzed in order to explore the essential features and limitations with respect to the essential QoS requirements. Therefore, a systematic literature review has been performed in this study with an aim to identify and classify the existing research on trust establishment and estimation in cloud services. A critical review of the existing literature has been presented along with the identification of potential future research avenues. This study has also highlighted the need of improving the service selection process by employing user preferences based on their particular application domains in the context of utility. A RSU-aided distributed trust framework for pseudonym-enabled privacy preservation in VANETs Vehicular ad hoc networks (VANETs) have the potential to change the way of people drive, travel and so on, in which vehicle can broadcast and forward the message of road condition or emergency. When the received messages are unreliable, they may lead the vehicles to make wrong decisions. To assess how trustworthy the messages are, every vehicle holds the reputation value in the trust-based schemes. In pseudonym-based schemes, vehicles change their pseudonyms by some kind of manner to confuse the trackers. However, the reputation value provides an additional clue to track vehicle when it and the pseudonym change asynchronously. To reconcile the conflict of privacy preservation and reputation evaluation, we propose a distributed trust framework for pseudonym-enabled privacy preservation in VANETs. In this framework, the road side unit assigns the reputation label certificate (RLC) to evaluate the reliability of message for every vehicle in its communication range. To preserve the privacy, the RLC manifests two trust statuses to replace the specific reputation value. All the reputation values of vehicles are stored in the centrical database. To encourage vehicle to follow the rules, the reputation update algorithm is designed with different weights, which achieve the reputation value increasing slowly and decreasing quickly. When RLC of vehicle is revoked, its security and privacy will not be protected. Finally, theoretical analysis and simulations show that our scheme can efficiently meet the requirements of security and privacy in VANETs. Review of different classes of RFID authentication protocols Radio-frequency identification (RFID) is an up-and-coming technology. The major limitations of RFID technology are security and privacy concerns. Many methods, including encryption, authentication and hardware techniques, have been presented to overcome security and privacy problems. This paper focuses on authentication protocols. The combination of RFID technology being popular but unsecure has led to an influx of mutual authentication protocols. Authentication protocols are classified as being fully fledged, simple, lightweight or ultra-lightweight. Since 2002, much important research and many protocols have been presented, with some of the protocols requiring further development. The present paper reviews in detail recently proposed RFID mutual authentication protocols, according to the classes of the authentication protocols. The protocols were compared mainly in terms of security, the technique that they are based on, protocols that the presented protocol has been compared with, and finally, the method of verifying the protocol. Important points of the comparisons were collected in two tables. Overcoming Social Barriers When Contributing to Open Source Software Projects An influx of newcomers is critical to the survival, long-term success, and continuity of many Open Source Software (OSS) community-based projects. However, newcomers face many barriers when making their first contribution, leading in many cases to dropouts. Due to the collaborative nature of community-based OSS projects, newcomers may be susceptible to social barriers, such as communication breakdowns and reception issues. In this article, we report a two-phase study aimed at better understanding social barriers faced by newcomers. In the first phase, we qualitatively analyzed the literature and data collected from practitioners to identify barriers that hinder newcomers’ first contribution. We designed a model composed of 58 barriers, including 13 social barriers. In the second phase, based on the barriers model, we developed FLOSScoach, a portal to support newcomers making their first contribution. We evaluated the portal in a diary-based study and found that the portal guided the newcomers and reduced the need for communication. Our results provide insights for communities that want to support newcomers and lay a foundation for building better onboarding tools. The contributions of this paper include identifying and gathering empirical evidence of social barriers faced by newcomers; understanding how social barriers can be reduced or avoided by using a portal that organizes proper information for newcomers (FLOSScoach); presenting guidelines for communities and newcomers on how to reduce or avoid social barriers; and identifying new streams of research. A Capability Approach to Child Growth For decades, child growth monitoring has been performed by measuring anthropometric indicators and comparing them against universal standards. Since the 1970s various efforts have been made to expand the focus from anthropometric indicators and include broader contextual and structural factors that influence children’s growth. However, those efforts have so far not led to changes in the dimensions that are taken into account in child growth monitoring. In this paper we introduce the Capability Approach asan evaluative framework for growth monitoring of children under five years old. Applying the CA helps focusing on what children are able to achieve by analyzing their available resources (endowments), as well as the mechanisms that could enhance or restrict their access to those resources (conversion factors). In addition, children’s growth could be assessed alongside the caregivers’ capabilities that children rely on to achieve their full growth potential. We present a child growth evaluation framework as well as a matrix, which has different categories of dimensions that interact with each other and ultimately shape children’s growth. The framework is a flexible tool, and is thus broad enough to accommodate contextual differences. Transmission delay minimization in wireless powered communication systems We study transmission delay minimization of a wireless powered communication (WPC) system in a point-to-point scenario with one hybrid access point (HAP) and one WPC node. In this type of communications, the HAP sends energy to the node at the downlink (DL) for a given time duration and the WPC node harvests enough radio frequency power. Then, at the uplink (UL) channel, the WPC node transmits its collected data in a given time duration to the HAP. Minimizing such round trip delay is our concern here. So, we have defined four optimization problems to minimize this delay by applying the optimal DL and UL time durations and also the optimal power at the HAP. These optimization problems are investigated here with thorough comparison of the obtained results. After that, we extend our study to the multiuser case with one HAP and K nodes and two different optimization problems are studied again in these cases. RescueGlass: Collaborative Applications involving Head-Mounted Displays for Red Cross Rescue Dog Units On-site work of emergency service teams consists of highly cooperative tasks. Especially during distributed search and rescue tasks there is a constant mix of routinized and non-routinized activities. Within this paper we focus on the work practices of the German Red Cross Rescue Dog Units who deal with several uncertainties regarding the involved dogs, the fragility of the respective situations as well as issues of using technologies under enormous time pressure. Smart glasses provide possibilities for enhanced and hands-free interaction in various contexts and a number of approaches have already been applied, aiming at efficient use of the respective technological innovation in private and professional contexts. However, the collaborative potential of smart glasses in time-critical and uncertain situations is still unexplored. Our design case study examines how the on-site work of emergency service teams can be supported by smart glasses: Based on examining the work practices of the German Red Cross Rescue Dogs, we introduce ‘RescueGlass’ as a coordinative concept, encompassing hands-free head-mounted display (HMD) application as well as a corresponding smartphone application. Finally, we describe the evaluation of its use in the field of emergency response and management. We show how current features such as ‘fog of war’ or various sensors support the cooperative practices of dog handlers, and outline current technical limitations offering future research questions. Our paper provides an initial design probe using smart glasses to engage in the field of collaborative professional mobile tasks. The Beginning of the Viking Age in the West During the Viking Age, Arctic Scandinavia was a source of exquisite furs, down, walrus ivory, and other commodities that met with high demand in England and on the Continent. Hitherto, the earliest firm evidence of this trade has been Ohthere’s account c. 890, but in light of this paper’s findings, its history may be pushed further back in time. Geological analyses of whetstones retrieved in eighth- to early ninth-century Ribe, south-western Jylland, in present-day western Denmark, demonstrate that the majority were quarried near the aristocratic manor Lade (‘loading/storing place’) in Trøndelag, present-day central Norway, some 1100 km by sea to the north. Because of their high numbers and durability, whetstones retrieved in Ribe and other urban sites may be regarded as a proxy for long-distance seaborne trade from the Arctic. The peak in this trade on the threshold of the Viking Age invites a reconsideration of the coinciding and conflicting interests of Scandinavian long-distance traders, kings, and Vikings. It is argued that coalitions and conflicts that arose from these interests, and new constraints and opportunities that emerged for these three types of agents, provide keys to understanding why and where Vikings raided overseas up to the mid-ninth century. A trajectory for technology-supported elderly care work To enable elderly people to live independently in their homes, the government aims to de-institutionalize elderly care services by upscaling home care services and care housing and downscaling long-term stays at nursing homes. Increasing use of assistive technologies will play a significant role in the ongoing transformation of care services, however our empirical data shows how difficult appropriation and use of technology are for elderly end-users. In this paper, we suggest a comprehensive elderly care trajectory model that includes the collaborative work of self-care, formal care, informal care and technology. We build our trajectory on empirical studies of elderly people using assistive technology in a care housing and in nursing homes, in addition to Corbin and Strauss’ classic work. Our proposal of an elderly care trajectory fits with the municipal care staircase, but challenges its minimalist service level focus, as well as its late and limited introduction of technology. Characterizing the Patient Experience of CS/HIPEC Through In-Depth Interviews with Patients: Identification of Key Concepts in the Development of a Patient-Centered Program IntroductionThe cytoreduction and hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (CS/HIPEC) procedure is complex, involving lengthy preparation and recovery in a heterogeneous patient group. Understanding the patient experience is essential to improving interactions with health professionals that is critical to recovery.ObjectiveThis study sought to characterize the early recovery and return to quality of life (at 3 and 6–12 months post-surgery, respectively) in patients having undergone CS/HIPEC, through structured interviews.MethodsTwo sets of interviews were conducted among 20 CS/HIPEC patients. Interviews were uploaded into QSR NVivo 10 qualitative software (QSR International, Australia) and coded by two study personnel. Interview 1 focused on initial treatment decision making and postoperative hospitalization, while interview 2 focused on recovery, supports, and return to quality of life.
ResultsAmong the participants, 60% were female and the mean age was 57 years (range 31–71). Diagnoses included disseminated peritoneal adenomucinosis (n = 6), appendiceal adenocarcinoma (n = 4), colorectal adenocarcinoma (n = 6), goblet cell (n = 2), and mesothelioma (n = 2). The first interview identified common themes of perioperative psychosocial isolation, lack of direction, and the importance of an established support system. Patients requested printed and audiovisual materials focused on addressing expectations. The main findings from the second interview captured patient experiences with longer-term complications, as well as surveillance.ConclusionFocused interviews with patients recently having undergone CS/HIPEC identified key issues that may be addressed in programs to improve the patient experience. These issues were distinctly different in relation to phase of recovery, and patient-centered programs designed with these factors in mind have the potential to enhance the recovery process. A model of gameful design for learning using interactive tabletops: enactment and evaluation in the socio-emotional education classroom Building on established pedagogy and technological advancement, this article presents a model of gameful design for learning using interactive tabletops, enacted and evaluated in the context of socio-emotional education. Based on the proposed model, we detail the design of a technology-enhanced learning experience in which a series of traditional lessons are enriched by collaborative work on interactive tabletops; four gameful activities are used which may be directly linked to a school curriculum. We conduct a qualitative case study with the participation of 86 fifth grade students across two elementary schools which have a significant minority enrolment. We demonstrate the ways in which the students draw on recently-acquired knowledge, engage in dramatic play, share the digital space and collaborate intensively to achieve a new and refined understanding of concepts and behaviours linked to perspective-taking. We discuss how tabletops, in synergy with constructivist pedagogy and principles of gameful design, allow researchers and practitioners to promote communication, collaboration and perspective-taking in ways that were hitherto difficult to enact in traditional lessons. Gameful design for learning is seen as a multilevel endeavour, which involves the selection of tasks and tools as well as the behaviour of the learners and the instructor as participants in the learning environment.