A decentralized computer network for supervision of multiple psychological laboratories The computer network described was designed to optimize the use of a number of independent minicomputers as a single integrated system for process control of several research laboratories. The implementation of the network required both the development of a special purpose interprocessor interface and the design of a software support system to direct network operations. The network was designed according to the familiar “star” configuration, with the exception that the central computer in the star does not exercise exclusive supervisory control over the system. Rather, each computer on the system “sees” the central computer as a peripheral similar in characteristics to a medium speed I/O device. This design allows each computer to serve not only as a node in the network, but also as an entirely independent process controller. The stability problem of broadcast packet switching computer networks ertain computer networks have been implemented using a radio broadcast frequency over which a large set of terminals are allowed to transmit packets of bits; one such example is the ALOHA computer network [1]. In such systems, a basic problem is that of the blocking of terminals whose transmission of a packet has overlapped in time with transmission by some other terminal. In this paper we consider a “slotted ALOHA” packet transmission scheme with an infinite set of terminals each transmitting at an infinitesimally small rate. We present a probabilistic model of such a system to show that the slotted ALOHA system with an infinite population is inherently unstable. This paper confirms the simulations and results of Kleinrock and Lam [8]. A simulation tool for performance evaluation of the IBM 360/75 In this paper we present some results obtained from using simulation as a tool for evaluating alternative methods of improving system performance in network computers. We begin by describing a GPSS model which was developed to evaluate the current computer center operations at the University of Illinois. While using actual data from the center to verify that the model accurately predicts each job's total time in the system, we evaluate the resource utilization within the center. Then we use the simulator to show that a proposed dynamic priority assignment algorithm yields better throughput than the existing algorithm while maintaining a higher level of CPU and memory utilization. Next, turning our attention to a hypothetical network of three centers, we use a generalization of our model to demonstrate the effects of load leveling between centers on the total system throughput. Here we also explore the merits of “pay-for-priority” schemes in both a single center and in a network of three centers. Hierarchically distributed processing for psychology The advantages of loosely coupled hierarchical computer networks for psychological research are discussed. Hardware methods for interconnecting computers are considered, and software communication protocols are detailed. A hierarchy of interconnected computers is formed: (1) large campus computer for statistical analyses, (2) medium scale computer for data concentration and program development, and (3) laboratory computers for data collection. This hierarchy provides efficient computing at all levels and insures maximum computing power at minimum cost. Networks and the life sciences: the ARPA Network and Telenet The mushrooming of developments in computer/communication during the last 5 years has led to a rapid growth of interest in computer networks. A recent bibliography on Resource-Sharing Computer Networks (2) lists the number of published contributions for the years 1969, 1970, 1971, and 1972 as, respectively, 46, 94, 121, and 144. This sudden increase in interest was triggered by the United States’ decision, in 1968, to build the Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA) Network. The ARPA Network has been widely reported, with many citations in (2); a few key references are (9–12, 15, 20) and recent interesting summaries of packet switching technology are given in (13, 19). Network projects are being undertaken all over the world; a recent document describing many such projects is (18), certain others are described in (4, 14, 17), and the involvement of satellite channels is discussed in (1). In the United States, commercial carriers based on the new-technology are rapidly evolving (16, 22). It has been possible for a long time for an individual to make use of several diverse remote computers; similarly, it has been possible to divide a problem among two or more geographically distant computers, or to use many different types of terminals with a computer service, and so on, and so forth. Such arrangements have typically been so laborious, however, that they have occurred very rarely. Now a new computer-communication partnership, and a burgeoning computer network technology, have moved a myriad of such activities from possible to convenient, and now such activities can and will really occur on a wide scale in many areas of application. Economies and economics of network computers Network computers have evolved for reasons of economics and efficiency. A network computer is a set of computer systems which have been interconnected to achieve some common purpose: be it increased reliability, load sharing, or resource sharing. The major goal of most network computers presently in existence or planned is resource sharing (4, 10, 13). The operational and managerial advantages that may be derived from resource sharing and the attendant problems of network resource management are discussed in (14). Hierarchical computer systems for on-line applications Experiments in the physical and biomedical sciences are becoming increasingly dependent on digital systems for on-line control and data gathering. This mode of operation has received enormous impetus from the advent of the minicomputer, functioning as a flexible and inexpensive control device. Although much has been accomplished in the development of efficient facilities for the off-line processing and analysis of experimental data, a comparable effort has been slow to develop for on-line digital systems forming part of an experimental setup. A Simulation Study of Data Acquisition and Data Communication in a Complex Power Transmission Network A model of a computer network has been built to study its behaviour under different conditions. The purpose of the network is to serve as a totally integrated data acquisition and data communication system in the electrical power field.From knowledge of the total amount of information generated in every terminal and some given restrictions, such as response time for indication changes, maximum age of analog and digital measurings when reaching the endstations, as well as maximum age of manouvering and control signals when reaching the terminals, it was possible to design a suitable layout of the network and develope a method to handle it. Thus it gives, as an example, necessary transmission speeds, optimal choice of block size and necessary storage requirements in the collecting point computers.The model, which is programmed in SIMSCRIPT 1.5, is also a splendid tool to study routing, rerouting and retransmission philosophies in the computer network, when disturbances occur. Solving partial differential equations using ILLIAC IV The solution of the Benard-Rayleigh convection problem using ILLIAC IV is reviewed and comments about solving partial differential equations using this computer are made. This includes a brief look at possible uses of parallelism in designing arithmetic logic units, at the Institute for Advanced Computations, at the ARPA communications network and at the ILLIAC IV. An explicit solution of the prognostic convection equations is considered and the use of iterative and direct methods for solving the Poisson streamfunction equation discussed. Storage considerations are emphasized. Closing remarks on algorithmic parallelism, others using ILLIAC and I-O and programming language considerations for ILLIAC are included. Crysnet a crystallographic computing network with interactive graphics display More than the simple study of crystals, modern crystallography can be defined as the study of the structure of crystalline matter at or near atomic resolution by means of diffraction of X-rays, neutrons or electrons (15). As a science, crystallography throbs with relevancy (8). Crystallography settled the debate over the chemical form of NaCl (1914), served as a basis for the understanding of the chemical bond (1938), and more recently ushered in the now widely popular field of molecular biology (1953). Within the past 10 years the number of small compounds under study has risen to a current level of about 2,000 reports per year, and equally important, the number, size, and variety of macromolecules under investigation is steadily increasing. Computer Enhancement of Acoustic Images Acoustic imaging may be useful in such applications as nondestructive testing, biomedical diagnosis, underwater viewing and micros copy. Unfortunately, however, the quality of images available from acoustic systems is not always satisfactory to human observers. A digital image-processing technique, employing minicomputers and relatively inexpensive input-output equipment, has been used for image enhancement and noise removal in images produced by a Bragg-diffraction system. This paper describes the technique and shows the results of applying the method in the case of a particularly simple image of a hook. Organization of software for multicomputer process control systems The trend toward multiple computers for process control applications is accompanied by the introduction of line sharing input/output systems and microprocessors for general use. As a result, many different structures for multiple computer process control applications become practical. Software costs are still dominant however, and it is important that any multi-computer structure be supported by software which is compatible with process control objectives and economical to implement. Of particular importance is the need for an integrated data base and graceful degradation in case of failure. The organization of process control software for single computer systems is used as the starting point to evaluate the desirability of various software organizations for several multi-computer ring-connected systems. Compatibility with line-sharing I/0 systems is discussed. A short history of computer system modeling and measurements at the University of California, Los Angeles This paper has reviewed the major work on modeling and measurement of computer systems done at UCLA. In no sense should this be considered an exhaustive review. Rather, these introductions should allow one to obtain further information though the bibliography or by contacting the individual actively involved in the area of interest. Introduction If the term “computer networking” were to be interpreted literally one would conjure up an image of a number of computers interconnected such that any one computer is not only interfaced to one or more other computers but that functionally one could envision a single problem being worked on by two or more computers in the net with no human intervention. Un systeme de communications: logiciel ou materiel? La structure proposée doit décharger l'unité centrale des tâches de communications, mais les moyens matériels requis définissent une nouvelle architecture de machines, où les ressources sont distribuées.Il serait tentant d'aller plus loin, et par exemple d'adjoindre à certains périphériques des logiques de traitement. Cette démarche, séduisante au demeurant, est néanmoins dangereuse dans la mesure où il s'agit d'un processus de "réincarnation" [15], aboutissant à la remise en place d'une configuration traditionnelle autour d'un périphérique.L'ambition du projet [3] est donc limitée à la réalisation complète de la structure présentée, qui vise à éliminer les communications incidentes, puis au développement de cette structure dans le sens de la localisation fonctionnelle, afin de réduire les communications intrinsèques.