Collaborative document annotation using electronic mail The primary purpose of this paper is to describe an approach to software development, the small scale approach, that is particularly appropriate for groupware that has a target user population that is truly global. Many of the reasons why the small scale approach is appropriate are described.To support the paper's primary purpose, the domain of document annotation in collaborative writing is used to illustrate the requirements of such global groupware. A simulation shows how the proposed software might be used by individuals and how annotations might be automatically combined. The requirements analysis from this leads to a high level program design which is implemented, for illustration, as a PERL program. Transport layer statistical multicast based on the XTP bucket algorithm Multicast or point-to-multipoint transmission is becoming a major issue for supporting distributed multimedia applications. In this paper, we analyze the service provided by theXtp reliable multicast. We discover several problems and drawbacks, such as multiple retransmission of the same data packets or the protocol inefficiency when performing with large group size and non-broadcast networks. To overcome some of these problems, we introduce new constraints at the sender side to prevent any unnecessary retransmissions. We introduce the service semantic calledstatistical reliable to cope with large group size while keeping a high level of reliability (related to error recovery issues). The quality of service provided by this modified protocol is assessed by simulation experiments for two different network environments :Fddi andAtm. We show that the reliability is almost binary, i.e. all reliable or unreliable at all. If the parameters are correctly sized, we can expect to get an all reliable semantic while using the statistical reliable protocol with the benefit of low protocol overhead. We are now working on a modified version of the proposed protocol to specifically adressAtm based networks.RésuméLa transmission point à multipoint est essentielle au développement d’applications réparties multimédias. Le problème est traité au sein des organismes de normalisation et de nombreux projEts afin de spécifier rapidement un service de type dans la couche transport. L’article étudie le protocoleXtp (Xpress Transfer Protocol) avec un algorithme de protection contre les erreurs basé sur une chaîne de seaux. Ce protocole possède des défauts importants tels que des retransmissions multiples redondantes. Des modifications cêté émetteur permettent d’éviter des retransmissions inutiles. Le concept de service statistiquement fiable autorise des groupes de taille importante tout en conservant un niveau élevé de fiabilité au sens des reprises sur erreur. La qualité de service du protocole modifié est évalué par simulation pour des réseauxFfdi etAtm. En effet les paramètres doivent être dimensionnés selon l’application. On s’intéresse au délai de transmission en fonction du nombre de seaux et à la fiabilité en fonction des paramètres du protocole et de l’environnement. La fiabilité est pratiquement binaire (totale ou inacceptable) avec un faible surdébit. Transport layer for cooperative multimedia applications This paper presents work carried out within the Cesame project for the design of a multimedia highspeed distributed transport provider. The term transport provider is used to target a reference framework but does not preclude any standardized reference model. It gives the objectives and relates the main contributions obtained during the first year of the project. The goal of this task is to monitor, select and design services, protocols and mechanisms for defining a transport provider to support distributed multimedia services. As far as architectural aspects are concerned, a refinement of reference models is mandatory, and work on this topic has already been started within several institutions. Moreover, it is worth to mention that the transport provider will have first to run on top ofAtm/Aal networks and is expected on top of other networks.RésuméCet article présente les travaux réalisés dans le projet Cesame en vue de la conception d’un service et d’un protocole de transport pour applications multimédias réparties à haut débit. Le but de ces travaux est de proposer de nouvelles activités dans ce domaine, sélectionner et concevoir des mécanismes de protocoles et définir des services capables de supporter les besoins des nouvelles applications visées. Les travaux réalisés ont déjà conduit à des extensions significatives des solutions existantes. Elles montrent la nécessité de réviser le modèle de référenceOsi utilisé jusqu’à présent. Des activités ont déjà été initialisées dans ce sens, aussi bien au sein d’organismes de normalisation que de projets. Notons également que le réseau support utilisé comme premier objectif cible sera I’Atm, et que cet aspect a une influence sur les orientations choisies. Néanmoins, le cadre plus général des réseaux hétérogènes interconnectés n’est pas exclu, et fait partie de notre domaine de réflexion générale. RREACT: A Distributed Network Restoration Protocol for Rapid Restoration of Active Communication Trunks Commercial telecommunications networks have tight real-time requirements for restoration after a failure. The problem of finding the available restoration paths and reassigning the interrupted traffic within such tight real-time requirements places difficult demands on the restoration protocol employed. This paper reviews several distributed network restoration protocols and presents a new distributed protocol called RREACT, for performing this function with a distributed algorithm which uses no prior network status or topography knowledge and which supports multiple simultaneous link restorations. Simulation results show that this protocol significantly outperforms other existing algorithms based on the Sender-Chooser approach, usually completing the total restoration in well under one second. In addition, enhancements to the basic algorithm are described which help to ensure near-optimal use of network spare channel resources and address such restoration situations where a complete restoration is possible but not achieved due to the poor choice of initial restoration path(s). Self-stabilization by local checking and global reset We describe a method for transforming asynchronous network protocols into protocols that can sustain any transient fault, i.e., become self-stabilizing. We combine the known notion of local checking with a new notion of internal reset, and prove that given any self-stabilizing internal reset protocol, any locally-checkable protocol can be made self-stabilizing. Our proof is constructive in the sense that we provide explicit code. The method applies to many practical network problems, including spanning tree construction, topology update, and virtual circuit setup. Simulation techniques for proving properties of real-time systems The method of simulations is an important technique for reasoning about real-time and other timing-based systems. It is adapted from an analogous method for untimed systems. This paper presents the simulation method in the context of a very general automaton (i.e., labelled transition system) model for timing-based systems. Sketches are presented of several typical examples for which the method has been used successfully. Other complementary tools are also described, in particular, invariants for safety proofs, progress functions for timing proofs, and execution correspondences for liveness proofs. Ansätze zur Wiederverwendung fassungDie Softwareentwicklung wird zum einen durch die Wiederverwendung von Software(-teilen) aus frühen Entwurfsstufen und zum anderen durch den häufigen Einsatz von Bauteilen qualitativ hochwertiger und produktiver. Durch häufige Nutzung der bestehenden Entwicklungsprodukte und -bauteile wird eine frühere Amortisation dieser Investitionen erreicht. Daher sollte das Augenmerk auf der Entwicklung wiederverwendbarer Entwicklungsprodukte liegen. Datenbankarchitekturen in der Unternehmung fassungDie Gestaltung von Datenbankarchitekturen in der Unternehmung setzt ein Basisverständnis in den Gebieten Datenbanksysteme, Datenbanksprachen, Datenmodellierung und Rechnervernetzung voraus. Soweit es für das Verständnis dieser Arbeit erforderlich ist, wird in Abschnitt 2.1 in die Grundlagen von Datenbanksystemen und Datenbanksprachen, wie auch in die Grundlagen der Datenmodellierung236 eingeführt. Aus einer Informatik-Perspektive heraus erlaubt diese Einführung eine Fundierung einiger Aussagen aus Kapitel 1237 und bildet die Grundlage für einige der nachfolgenden Abschnitte und Kapitel238. In Abschnitt 2.2 werden Probleme und zugehörige Lösungsmethoden einer Adaption der logischen Struktur der Unternehmungsdaten an sich verändernde Anforderungen an die Informationsversorgung vorgestellt. Diese Ausführungen vertiefen insbesondere das Verständnis der Probleme einer logischen Integration dezentraler Datenbanken und verdeutlichen die Potentiale und Restriktionen einer veränderlichen, virtuellen Integration zur flexiblen und bedarfsorientierten Informationsversorgung. Abschnitt 2.3 führt in knapper Weise in die logischen und technischen Grundlagen der Rechnervernetzung ein. In Abschnitt 2.4 wird das Client-Server-Konzept dargestellt und seine betriebswirtschaftliche Relevanz für die Bereiche Geschäftsprozeßgestaltung und -automation durch flexible Integrierbarkeit elektronischer Aufgabenträger in betriebswirtschaftliche Prozeßketten diskutiert.