DARPA Activities in Packet Network Interconnection A fundamental premise of all current Command, Control and Communications (C3) research is that digital technology and computing systems will play a central role in the future. It is already apparent that computers are being employed in tactical as well as strategic military equipment both to replace older technology and to significantly improve our ability to control weapons systems. Automatic fire control, computer-aided information collection and correlation, computer-controlled array sensors and computer-controlled communication systems are all symptomatic of an increasingly automated C3 environment. Lysosomes and Intracellular Proteolysis Most of the general features of protein turnover are described elsewhere in this volume, by Bohley and by Goldberg, and several excellent and detailed reviews are available (1–3). My purpose here is to outline available information on lysosomal mechanisms of degradation of endogenous cellular proteins. Characterization of the Active Site of Angiotensin Converting Enzyme Angiotensin converting enzyme is part of the well-known renin-angiotensin system, which consists of a sequence of proteolytic cleavage steps that lead to the generation of the biologically active peptide, angiotensin II (1,2). The initiation of the system involves the secretion of renin, an acid protease, from the kidneys into the blood, where it cleaves the α2-globulin, angiotensinogen, to yield the decapeptide angiotensin I. Subsequently, angiotensin converting enzyme, a dipeptidyl carboxypeptidase located in the vascular endothelium, releases the C-terminal dipeptide His-Leu from angiotensin I to generate the active octapeptide angiotensin II (3–6), which is finally inactivated by angiotensinases. Angiotensin II exhibits a broad spectrum of biological activities, but among these the most significant property is its powerful vasoconstricting effect. Although the role of angiotensin converting enzyme in the generation of angiotensin II and, thereby, in the control of blood pressure has long been recognized, its clinical importance has only recently been highlighted by the discovery that specific inhibitors of this enzyme are potential drugs for the control of hypertension in man (7). Protease Action in Carcinogenesis The major cause of cancer appears to be the environment. Estimates of 80%–90% of cancer incidence have been ascribed to environmental factors (1,2). The main evidence for this startling hypothesis has come from epidemiological studies of migrant populations. Here, it has been noted, that the cancer incidence pattern changes from that of the migrants’ native country to that of the host country within a few generations (3). A well-known example is the study of Japanese migrants to the United States. The incidence of colon and breast cancer in Japan is low, while that of stomach cancer is high. The reverse pattern is prevalent in the United States. Within the three generations, the incidence of cancer in Japanese living in the U. S. shifts from the pattern found in Japan to that in the U. S. (Fig. 1). Activity of a Rat Uterus Proteinase Inhibitor During Pregnancy and Involution Its Possible Importance in Control of Proteolysis in the Myometrium The weight of the rat uterus, like that of other mammals, increases several-fold during gestation, which in the rat lasts 21 days, and the highest rate of growth occurs in the last third of this period (Fig.1). The major portion of this increase in weight is due to the growth of the muscle layer of the uterus, the myometrium. Conversely, immediately after delivery there is a dramatic involution of the uterus, and in the rat the nonpregnant uterine weight is reached within four days (1). Proteolysis and Fertilization Participation of proteases in fertilization processes has been well documented recently. Proteases are involved, for example, in sperm migration and transport, induction of the acrosome reaction, penetration of spermatozoa through ovum layers, development of the fertilization membrane (polyspermy block), decondensation of chromatin after sperm-egg fusion as well as in ovulation, ovum and oocyste transport, implantation of the blastocyste in the uterus, involution of uterine tissue and parturition (1). The activity of the proteases is regulated either by activation of zymogens or by protease inhibitors present in genital tissues and secretions and the gametes as well, the protease inhibitors exhibiting chiefly a protective function (2). Studies of the Pathway for Protein Degradation in Escherichia coli and Mammalian Cells The rates of degradation of proteins in animal and bacterial cells are determined in large part by the structure of these molecules. Thus normal proteins in mammalian cells vary appreciably in their relative rates of degradation, and these differences correlate with certain structural features of the individual proteins (Goldberg and Dice, 1974; Goldberg and St. John, 1976). Furthermore, both eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells degrade very rapidly proteins with highly abnormal conformations (Goldberg and Dice, 1974; Goldberg and St. John, 1976; Goldberg et al., 1975), such as result from biosynthetic errors, from nonsense or missense mutations or from incorporation of amino acid analogs or puromycin (see Table 1). The selective hydrolysis of such proteins appears to be an important cellular process that prevents the accumulation in vivo of inactive and potentially harmful macromolecules. Role of Proteinases from Leukocytes in Inflammation Inflammation, as both a clinical disease and as an experimental tool to study such disease, has a variety of etiologies but the consequences of the triggering stimuli are similar and appear sequentially. The first events occur at the site of injury and involve cells present locally (Table 1). There is a mounting body of evidence that proteases are involved at almost every stage of the disease, arising from a variety of cells. Import of Proteins into Mitochondria The biogenesis of mitochondria involves a close interaction between the nucleocytoplasmic and the mitochondrial genetic system. The majority of the mitochondrial proteins are synthesized on cytoplasmic ribosomes and transported into the organelle (1). The mechanism of this protein import has been under debate for many years (e.g., (2,3)). Recent experiments with yeast cells have shown that several cytoplasmic- ally made mitochondrial proteins are initially made as larger precursors, both in vitro as well as in pulse-labeled yeast spheroplasts (4,5). So far, larger precursors have been detected for the following cytoplasmically made mitochondrial proteins: the three largest subunits of the mitochondrial F1-ATPase (i.e., the α, β, and γ subunit, see (4)) and two subunits of the mitochondrial cytochrome bc1 complex (cytochrome c1 and subunit V; (5) and C. Côté, unpublished). Import of in vitro synthesized precursors into isolated mitochondria was demonstrated for the three largest F1-ATPase subunits; as an operational measure of import, we checked whether any of the polypeptides added to the mitochondria became resistant to externally added proteases (4). Determinants in Protein Topology Proteins are synthesized with specific structural information that determine their topology. Based in part on experimental evidence and in part on theoretical considerations, one can distinguish four groups of protein sequence that are determinants for protein topology. These are: (1) signal sequences, (2) stop-transfer sequences, (3) insertion sequences, and (4) sorting sequences. Signal sequences trigger translocation of proteins across distinct cellular membranes. Stop-transfer sequences abrogate translocation. Both sequences interact with specific membrane proteins that function as translocators. Insertion sequences serve to integrate monotopic integral membrane proteins into the lipid bilayer without the help of translocators. Sorting sequences function to route protein traffic following translocation or integration into membranes. Substrate Modulation as a Control Mechanism of Plasma Multienzyme Systems Plasma contains several complex enzyme systems involved in homeostasis and defense reactions: the clotting, fibrinolytic, kallikrein-kinin, and complement systems. Other than cellular structures plasma lacks any compartmentalization, it is a homogeneous medium allowing deliberate contact and interaction of its constituents which are all dissolved. This special feature necessitates special mechanisms of activation and control. Hageman factor-dependent systems and complement depend on several preenzymes which are activated in sequence by more or less specific trigger events and are limited in activity by plasma enzyme inhibitors. Some of the complement enzymes are labile protein complexes, their activity decays by spontaneous dissociation. In addition, a third principle has turned out to work as a control mechanism: the necessity for a substrate (e.g., a complement component) to be modulated by interaction with a specific partner (e.g., another, activated complement component) in order to be accessible to hydrolytic activation by the relevant, specific enzyme. At least six reactions in which substrate modulation seems essential are now known. Localization and Some Properties of a Proteinase and a Carboxypeptidase from Rat Liver When chromatin was sedimented through a 1.7 M sucrose layer the cosedimentation of an insoluble proteinase from the mitochondrial fraction was observed (1). Although the enzyme was purified from rat liver mitochondria (2), it was not clear whether it is a mitochondrial enzyme or a contamination from lysosomes, peroxisomes, or endoplasmic reticulum. The existence of a mitochondrial proteinase has been discussed by several authors (3–9). Until now, however, no such enzyme has been unambiguously localized in mitochondria. Blood Coagulation Fibrin formation in the test tube results from the interaction of a large number of proteins which are present in plasma in precursor or inactive forms (for a detailed review, see (1)). These proteins include fibrinogen, factor XIII, prothrombin, factor V, factor X, factor VIII, factor IX, factor XI, factor XII, prekallikrein, and high molecular weight kininogen. The clotting process is initiated when the plasma comes in contact with a surface, such as glass or kaolin. Under these conditions, factor XIIa is formed (Fig.1). In recent years, factor XII, prekallikrein, and high molecular weight kininogen have been extensively purified and their interactions during these initial phases of clotting have been studied. Processing of Bacteriophage Proteins Although a wide variety of functions has been discovered for proteases in higher organisms (Reich et al., 1975; Neurath and Walsh, 1976), relatively little is known about their functions in bacteria. The discovery that specific types of limited proteolysis occur during the growth of a number of bacterial viruses has provided an insight into the roles proteases might play in uninfected cells, and a number of experimental systems for investigation of protease function and its regulation in bacteria. The Kallikrein-Kinin System: A Functional Role of Plasma Kallikrein and Kininogen in Blood Coagulation Bradykinin is a nonapeptide with potent pharmacological activities such as smooth muscle contraction and hypotension. In mammalian plasma, this physiologically active peptide is in precursor form, called kininogen, and liberated by the action of specific enzyme, plasma kallikrein, or tissue kallikreins. Bovine plasma contains at least two kininogens, named high molecular weight (HMW) kininogen and low molecular weight (LMW) kininogen (Yano et al., 1967). In Figure 1, the linear polypeptide sequences of kininogens are shown for comparison. The areas of which amino acid sequence has been established are indicated by shaded areas. HMW kininogen consists of a single chain with a molecular weight of 76,000, containing four segments, heavy chain, the kinin moiety, fragment 1·2 and light chain (Han et al., 1976). It contains 580 amino acid residues and 12.5% carbohydrates. This kininogen is the physiological substrate of plasma kallikrein (Yano et al., 1971). LMW kininogen, on the other hand, has a molecular weight of 48,000. It consists of 380 residues and 16.4% carbohydrate (Kato et al., 1976). Alkaline Proteinases in Skeletal Muscle Negative nitrogen balance reflects disturbance in the protein turnover of the mammalian organism. Skeletal muscle, which constitutes half of the body weight in the adult man or rat, contributes to this loss of nitrogen in prolonged starvation or diabetes mellitus (1,2). Protein turnover studies in skeletal muscle tissue have shown that endocrine and nutritional alterations primarily affect the rate of protein synthesis (10). However, in addition to this effect an increase of muscle protein breakdown is observed, e.g., when starvation continues longer than 2 days (9,11). Proteolysis, a Determinant for Virus Pathogenicity Pathogenicity, i.e., the ability of a virus to induce disease in the infected organism, is the result of a complex interplay of a multitude of factors that are determined by the biological, biochemical, and genetic characteristics of the virus on the one hand, and the reactivity of the host on the other. Thus, a molecular basis for viral pathogenicity is not easy to define. It is reasonable, however, to assume that clinical disease becomes manifest, if cells of vital function are altered or killed by the infecting virus. Since the tropism of a virus for a host cell represents primarily an interaction between the surface components of the virus and receptors of the host cell, it is appealing to postulate that surface structures of a virus might determine pathogenicity. This concept is supported by recent results obtained with myxoviruses. It will be shown that the surface glycoproteins of these viruses acquire biological activity through proteolytic cleavage and that this activation is of high importance for pathogenicity. Hydrolysis of Peptide Bonds and Control of Blood Pressure Activation of proteases can affect the blood pressure in several ways. Activation of the renin, kallikrein, plasmin, and complement systems leads to the release of vasoactive peptide such as kinins, angiotensins, or anaphylatoxins. Many of these cascading processes are interrelated; thus, the same enzyme protein when activated may trigger the release of several vasoactive materials which can have opposing actions (Fig.1). For example, although renin releases the vasopressor angiotensin, and kallikrein releases the vasodilator bradykinin, the two systems may be activated simultaneously (Inagami et al., 1979; Sealey et al., 1979; Yokosawa et al., 19 79). Plasma and kidney contain prorenin, which can be converted to a more active form by kallikrein (Derkx et al., 19 79; Inagami et al., 1979; Osmond et al., 1978; Sealey et al., 1979; Yokosawa et al., 1979), plasmin (Osmond et al., 1978; Sealey et al., 1979; Yokosawa et al., 1979), or by the activator of prekallikrein, Hageman factor or factor XII (Sealey et al., 1979; Tatemichi and Osmond, 1978). Renal catheptic enzymes can also enhance the activity of prorenin (Inagami et al., 1977; Slater and Haber, 1978; Slater et al., 1979). Plasminogen Activator from Cultured Cells and from Blood Plasma Plasminogen is the zymogen precursor of the protease plasmin, which accounts for almost 0.5% of the plasma proteins in the blood of higher animals. It consists of a single polypeptide chain with a molecular weight of ca. 90,000 daltons. Its covalent structure has been established recently (Sottrup-Jensen et al., 1977). The Complement System The complement system (C) is composed of group of plasma proteins which under certain conditions react with each other sequentially, resulting in the formation of highly specialized proteases. By their action multimolecular complexes are assembled, and when these events occur on the surface of some cells, the membrane function is impaired and the cell will lyse. Fragments and complexes appearing on activation of the complement system participate in other important biological activities such as chemotaxis, opsonization and in histamin release from mast cells and basophilic granulocytes. Endogenous Inhibitors of Tissue Proteinases In recent years there has been an increasing interest in inhibitors which are present in the same cell or tissue as the proteinases which they inhibit. This juxtaposition raises the possibility that the inhibitors may play a role in regulating the activity of tissue proteinases. Accordingly, determining the subcellular localization of the enzyme and of its inhibitor becomes an important step in the study of these systems. In some cases the proteinase is lysosomal, while its inhibitor is in the cytosol fraction. Nonetheless, there are occasions when these two components may well get together. Measurements of the levels of proteinases and their inhibitors during various normal and pathological processes may provide clues as to the roles of both components. Aside from their putative regulatory role, these inhibitors are believed to help protect tissues against inappropriate proteolysis. During phagocytosis, inflammation, and cell death, proteinases are released and probably contribute to the tissue destruction which is observed in pathological conditions such as emphysema, muscular dystrophy and arthritis. The endogenous inhibitors probably represent one of the body’s defenses against this proteolysis.We have found that many rat and human tissues contain separate thermostable inhibitors of the lysosomal cathepsins B and H. Several of these intracellular proteins have been purified and have molecular weights of approximately 13,000. They inhibit certain other sulfhydryl proteinases, but not serine or carboxyl proteinases. Similar thermostable inhibitors were found in other animals (protozoa, tuna, chicken, and toad). We have also found endogenous dipeptidase inhibitors in various mammalian tissues. Role of Granulocyte Elastase in Rheumatoid Arthritis: Effect on Mechanical Behaviour of Cartilage and Identification at the Cartilage/Pannus Junction Articular cartilage in rheumatoid arthritis undergoes destruction both on the free surface bordering the joint space (1) and at the erosion front built up by synovial tissue toward the cartilage (2,3). Neutral proteases present in articular tissues and inflammatory cells are believed to be of primary importance for this process, since their ability to degrade structural proteins of the joint could be demonstrated in vitro (4–8). Recently, in support of this idea, synovial collagenase was found at the cartilage/pannus junction (9), however the participation of the neutrophil granulocyte neutral proteases in rheumatoid joint destruction is doubted for two reasons: the serum inhibitors present in the rheumatoid synovial fluid largely inactivate neutral proteases possibly released from granulocytes in the joint space (28) and from the morphological examination of the rheumatoid joint tissues it is usually said that there is only the rare occurrence or lack of granulocytes at the cartilage/pannus junction (6,9–14). Intracellular Protein Turnover In the first part of this short review we shall summarize some of the main characteristics of intracellular protein turnover, and in the second part we shall go on to describe some of our work on the molecular mechanisms responsible for the characteristics of this process in rat liver. But first we must define the processes that we are talking about. Regulation of Proteinase Acitvity Proteolytic enzymes were among the first known enzymes. At the beginning of this century biologists became aware of the involvement of these enzymes in biological control mechanisms. Evidently these early investigators were primarily concerned with enzymes such as trypsin achieving extensive digestion of their protein substrates. Later the extra- and intra-cellular location of proteolytic enzymes was stated and in more recent years the fundamental role of limited proteolysis achieving the activation or modification of a substrate molecule, enabling it to take its place in a reaction cascade, became more and more the center of interest in many laboratories. Obviously there are too many control mechanisms in intra- and extracellular proteolysis to be reviewed here, and this paper will only describe the control of some proteolytic activities in mammalian plasma by eight of the actually known antiproteases. These inhibitors interfere mainly with the proteolytic activities of clotting components, of those enzymes controlling blood pressure and those achieving fibrinolysis. But we have also to take into account the complement system and the proteases liberated by blood cells, namely platelets and leukocytes, as these latter enzymes are able to activate or destroy factors belonging to the before-mentioned systems. Genetic and Biochemical Analysis of Intracellular Proteolysis in Yeast The fundamental role of proteolysis in cellular regulation has been discovered in recent years. A variety of processes have been found which are assumed or shown to be governed by the action of proteinases (1,2,3,4,5):
1.Protein maturation events.(a)Removal of N-formylmethionine or methionine from nascent polypeptide chains.(b)Removal of peptide extensions from proteins traversing membranes.(c)Cleavage of the translation product of monocistronic mRNA coding for several distinct polypeptide chains.(d)Conversion of inactive pro-proteins into the biologically active products.2.Specific inactivation or modification of biologically active proteins.3.Selective elimination of defective proteins.4.Continuous turnover to regulate protein levels and to supply amino acids and energy under starvation and differentiation conditions.5.Degradation of intracellularly transported exogenous peptides to satisfy nutritional requirements. The Processing of Plasma Proteins in the Liver The majority of plasma proteins is synthesized in the liver with the exception of antibodies, some lipoproteins, and polypeptide hormones. In the last decade, several monographs were published on plasma proteins, with emphasis on their structure, function, and genetic control (Putnam, 1975; Allison, 1974, 1976), and on clinical aspects (Hitzig, 19 77). In the following, a short summary of our knowledge of the mechanism of secretion of plasma proteins by the liver will be presented. The protein studied most extensively is albumin, but more recently data have also been obtained for the secretion of transferrin, α1-acid glycoprotein, and the major α1-antiproteinase in rat. It will become apparent that proteolytic processing is a prominent feature of the secretion of plasma proteins by the liver. Conformational Flexibility and Its Functional Significance in Some Protein Molecules The term “flexibility” in context with protein structures is used with a variety of meanings. For instance, both a protein molecule in random coil conformation and a molecule occurring as two different stable, but interconvertible conformers are named flexible. A precise definition of flexibility in a particular system requires determination of the number and geometry of the various conformers, their stability, the energy barriers separating the conformers, the kinetic parameters of interconversion and the thermal motion of the atoms within each conformer.