Development of a method for analyzing three-dimensional scapula kinematics BackgroundScapula mobility complicates upper extremity kinematics assessment. Existing methods are diverse, providing inconsistent results. The current gold standard (bone pins) is prohibitively invasive. The purposes of the current study are to describe a virtual projection alternative to surface markers for video motion capture (VMC) of the scapula and to compare the results of the projection and surface marker methods to the results of similar existing methods.MethodsTen participants were evaluated using VMC. Surface markers were applied to the trunk and arm in accordance with existing guidelines. Three markers were affixed to plastic base on the skin over the acromion process. Other scapular landmarks were digitized in a neutral position. These landmarks’ locations were defined in reference to the acromion cluster and used to generate the projection. Humerothoracic, glenohumeral, and scapulothoracic kinematics were evaluated during shoulder abduction, flexion, and scaption. Joint angles produced by the surface markers and the projection were compared by Bonferroni-adjusted t tests. The results were compared to prior findings in the literature.ResultsThe projection resulted in greater scapulothoracic upward rotation, internal rotation, and anterior–posterior tilt and less glenohumeral elevation (p < .0055) than did surface markers. The virtual scapula produced greater estimates of scapular mobility than did surface markers, corresponding to pre-existing results from similar methodologies.ConclusionsThe result is a noninvasive measurement tool that produces different and superior results than do scapula surface markers. Measuring scapula kinematics via VMC without bone pins will facilitate future investigations into interactions between upper extremity injury, kinematics, and activity performance. Gyroscope-based assessment of temporal gait parameters during treadmill walking and running Wireless sensing solutions that provide accurate long-term monitoring of walking and running gait characteristics in a real-world environment would be an excellent tool for sport scientist researchers and practitioners. The purpose of this study was to compare the performance of a body-worn wireless gyroscope-based gait analysis application to a marker-based motion capture system for the detection of heel-strike and toe-off and subsequent calculation of gait parameters during walking and running. The gait application consists of a set of wireless inertial sensors and an adaptive algorithm for the calculation of temporal gait parameters. Five healthy subjects were asked to walk and run on a treadmill at two different walking speeds (2 and 4 kph) and at a jogging (8 kph) and running (12 kph) speed. Data were simultaneously acquired from both systems. True error, percentage error and ICC scores indicate that the adaptive algorithm successfully calculated strides times across all speeds. However, results showed poor to moderate agreement for stance and swing times. We conclude that this gait analysis platform is valid for determining stride times in both walking and running. This is a useful application, particularly in the sporting arena, where long-term monitoring of running gait characteristics outside of the laboratory is of interest. Parafoveal Chondral Defects Associated with Femoroacetabular Impingement BackgroundCam-type, pincer, and mixed femoroacetabular impingement (FAI) are accepted causes of labral and acetabular rim injury; however, the abnormal contact stresses associated with motion may damage other areas of the hip. Although cartilage damage to the femoral head has been reported previously in athletes, FAI-associated focal parafoveal chondral defects differ from previously reported lesions and represent a rare manifestation of the complex pathomechanics associated with FAI.Questions/PurposesWe describe the clinical, radiographic, and surgical characteristics of a rare focal anterolateral parafoveal femoral chondral defect associated with FAI.MethodsWe retrospectively reviewed 10 patients with symptomatic FAI diagnosed with this unique focal defect confirmed at the time of surgical dislocation. Patients presented with hip pain, clinical findings of FAI, and, frequently, with an identifiable lesion on MRI arthrography. The minimum clinical followup was 12 months (mean, 29 months; range, 12–72 months).ResultsThe consistent characteristics of these lesions associated with FAI differ from previously reported femoral chondral damage reported after hip dislocation or lateral impact in that there was no discrete injury such as a fall or dislocation/subluxation, no associated traumatic femoral lesion, and all were localized to the posterosuperior femoral head. Eight of 10 were diagnosed preoperatively using MR arthrography.ConclusionsDespite radiographic similarities to findings of osteoarthritis and osteonecrosis, these FAI-associated femoral chondral defects were amenable to surgical reconstruction using first- or second-generation cartilage repair techniques during surgical treatment of impingement. The etiology of these lesions may be related to complex intraarticular forces generated by FAI-associated transient hip subluxation or forceful nonconcentric motion.Level of EvidenceLevel IV, therapeutic study. See Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence. Golfers do not respond to changes in shaft mass properties in a mechanically predictable way A common belief in the golf community is that a lighter shaft allows the golfer to swing the club faster. From a mechanical point of view, reducing the mass of the shaft would result in a faster swing. However, a golfer is not a purely mechanical system, and so it is simplistic to assume that identical loads will be applied when swinging different clubs. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that golfers behave similar to a mechanical model when swinging clubs of varying mass. A torque driven model estimated the effects caused by the addition of 22 g to the shaft. Twelve golfers hit balls with a standard driver as well as a driver fitted with the same 22 g increase in mass. Club kinematics were collected with a high-speed motion capture system. The model predicted a 1.7 % lower club head speed for the club with additional mass. One subject showed a similar reduction (1.4 %), but one subject showed an increase in club head speed by 3.0 %. Ten subjects did not show any significant differences. These results suggest that golfers do not respond to changes in club mass in a mechanically predictable way. Human-like manipulation planning for articulated manipulator A new method based on human-likeness assessment and optimization concept to solve the problem of human-like manipulation planning for articulated robot is proposed in this paper. This method intrinsically formulates the problem as a constrained optimization problem in robot configuration space. The robot configuration space is divided into different subregions by human likeness assessment. A widely used strategy, Rapid Upper Limb Assessment (RULA) in applied ergonomics, is adopted here to evaluate the human likeness of robot configuration. A task compatibility measurement of the robot velocity transmission ratio along a specified direction is used as the target function for the optimization problem. Simple illustrative examples of this method applied to a two Degree of Freedom (DOF) planar robot that resembles the upper limb of a human are presented. Further applications to a humanoid industrial robot SDA10D are also presented. The reasonable planning results for these applications assert the effectiveness of our method. The Biomechanical Case for Labral Débridement BackgroundLabral repair is increasingly performed in conjunction with open and arthroscopic surgical procedures used to treat patients with mechanically related hip pain. The current rationale for labral repair is based on restoring the suction-seal function and clinical reports suggesting improved clinical outcome scores when acetabular rim trimming is accompanied by labral repair. However, it is unclear whether available scientific evidence supports routine labral repair.Questions/PurposesThe questions raised in this review were: (1) does labral repair restore normal histologic structure, tissue permeability, hip hydrodynamics, load transfer, and in vivo kinematics; and (2) does labral repair favorably alter the natural course of femoroacetabular impingement (FAI) treatment or age-related degeneration of the acetabular labrum?MethodsAn electronic literature search for the keywords acetabular labrum was performed. Three hundred fifty-five abstracts were reviewed and 52 selected for full-text review that described information concerning pertinent aspects of labral formation, development, degeneration, biomechanics, and clinical results of labral repair or resection.ResultsSeveral clinical studies support labral repair when performed in conjunction with acetabular rim trimming. Little data support or refute the use of routine labral repair for all patients with symptomatic labral damage associated with FAI. It is not known whether or how labral repair affects the natural course of FAI.ConclusionsBased on the current understanding of labral degenerative changes associated with mechanical hip abnormalities, the low biologic likelihood of restoring normal tissue characteristics, and mechanical data suggesting minimal consequence from small labral resections, routine labral repair over labral débridement is not supported. Impact of hockey skate design on ankle motion and force production Dynamic forces and range of motion (ROM) were measured during on-ice skating using a standard hockey skate and a modified skate (MS) with an altered tendon guard and eyelet configuration. The objective of this study was to determine if these modifications resulted in biomechanical and performance changes during on-ice skating skills. The right skate of each type was instrumented with a calibrated strain gauge force transducer system to measure medial–lateral and vertical forces during ice skating. In addition, a goniometer was placed about the ankle and rear foot to measure ROM during skating. Ten subjects executed three skills: forward skating, crossovers inside foot and crossovers outside foot. The MS demonstrated significant gains of 5°–9° in dorsi-plantarflexion ROM (p < 0.05). Total peak force occurred later during plantarflexion, suggesting a more prolonged and effective force generation with the MS during a given skating stride. A 14–20 % increase (p > 0.05) in mean work and power output was noted with the MS, although no improved times were observed during the skating skills. Potentially, some players may need a period of familiarization to take advantage of the design alterations of the MS. Surgical Technique: Second-generation Bone Marrow Stimulation via Surgical Dislocation to Treat Hip Cartilage Lesions BackgroundCompared to knees, hips have more bony constraint and soft tissue coverage. Thus, repair of focal cartilage defects in hips requires more invasive and technically complex surgeries than simple arthroscopy or arthrotomy. Autologous matrix-induced chondrogenesis (AMIC) is a second-generation bone marrow stimulation technique. Improvement in Tegner, Lysholm, International Cartilage Repair Society (ICRS), and Cincinnati scores has been reported at 1 and 2 years after AMIC in knees. AMIC is potentially useful to repair defects in hips, but it is unknown whether it relieves symptoms or results in a durable construct.Description of TechniqueA surgical hip dislocation is used to access the defect. This is débrided to stable cartilage shoulders, necrotic bone is removed, and the lesion base is drilled. Autogenous bone graft is used for lesions with bony defects to create a level surface. Fibrin gel and a collagen membrane are placed to stabilize the superclot for fibrocartilage formation.MethodsWe treated six patients with AMIC in the hip between 2009 and 2010. We obtained Oxford Hip and UCLA Activity Scores. Repair quality was assessed on 6-month postoperative MRI using the modified magnetic resonance observation of cartilage repair tissue (MOCART) system. Minimum 1-year followup data were available for four patients (range, 1–2.5 years).ResultsPostoperative Oxford Hip Scores ranged from 13 to 17, UCLA Activity Scores ranged from 5 to 10, and MOCART scores ranged from 55 to 75. No complications occurred.ConclusionsWe describe AMIC in the hip. Although these patients had pain relief and improved function, long-term followup is necessary to assess the duration of improvement, durability of repair, and potential for arthrosis.Level of EvidenceLevel IV, therapeutic study. See Instructions for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence. Human hand modelling: kinematics, dynamics, applications An overview of mathematical modelling of the human hand is given. We consider hand models from a specific background: rather than studying hands for surgical or similar goals, we target at providing a set of tools with which human grasping and manipulation capabilities can be studied, and hand functionality can be described. We do this by investigating the human hand at various levels: (1) at the level of kinematics, focussing on the movement of the bones of the hand, not taking corresponding forces into account; (2) at the musculotendon structure, i.e. by looking at the part of the hand generating the forces and thus inducing the motion; and (3) at the combination of the two, resulting in hand dynamics as well as the underlying neurocontrol. Our purpose is to not only provide the reader with an overview of current human hand modelling approaches but also to fill the gaps with recent results and data, thus allowing for an encompassing picture. Report of Break-out Session: Management of Sequelae of Legg-Calvé-Perthes Disease  3D pose tracking using particle filter with back projection-based sampling This paper explores pose tracking with a 3D object model using a particle filter. In tracking an object with a particle filter, a problem of high dimensional solution space often appears. In a huge space, a search process is tedious and falls foul of the exponential computational complexity. We propose the back projection-based sampling with a depth map from a stereo camera, which reduces the solution space significantly. In addition, we treat a method that constructs the 3D model used in this paper. Results are shown for tracking the pose of several objects. Time-of-flight sensor and color camera calibration for multi-view acquisition This paper presents a multi-view acquisition system using multi-modal sensors, composed of time-of-flight (ToF) range sensors and color cameras. Our system captures the multiple pairs of color images and depth maps at multiple viewing directions. In order to ensure the acceptable accuracy of measurements, we compensate errors in sensor measurement and calibrate multi-modal devices. Upon manifold experiments and extensive analysis, we identify the major sources of systematic error in sensor measurement and construct an error model for compensation. As a result, we provide a practical solution for the real-time error compensation of depth measurement. Moreover, we implement the calibration scheme for multi-modal devices, unifying the spatial coordinate for multi-modal sensors.The main contribution of this work is to present the thorough analysis of systematic error in sensor measurement and therefore provide a reliable methodology for robust error compensation. The proposed system offers a real-time multi-modal sensor calibration method and thereby is applicable for the 3D reconstruction of dynamic scenes. Games People Play  Fiber optic intensity-modulated sensors: a review in biomechanics Fiber optic sensors have a set of properties that make them very attractive in biomechanics. However, they remain unknown to many who work in the field. Some possible causes are scarce information, few research groups using them in a routine basis, and even fewer companies offering turnkey and affordable solutions. Nevertheless, as optical fibers revolutionize the way of carrying data in telecommunications, a similar trend is detectable in the world of sensing. The present review aims to describe the most relevant contributions of fiber sensing in biomechanics since their introduction, from 1960s to the present, focusing on intensity-based configurations. An effort has been made to identify key researchers, research and development (R&D) groups and main applications. The effects of rear-wheel camber on the kinematics of upper extremity during wheelchair propulsion BackgroundThe rear-wheel camber, defined as the inclination of the rear wheels, is usually used in wheelchair sports, but it is becoming increasingly employed in daily propulsion. Although the rear-wheel camber can increase stability, it alters physiological performance during propulsion. The purpose of the study is to investigate the effects of rear-wheel cambers on temporal-spatial parameters, joint angles, and propulsion patterns.MethodsTwelve inexperienced subjects (22.3±1.6 yr) participated in the study. None had musculoskeletal disorders in their upper extremities. An eight-camera motion capture system was used to collect the three-dimensional trajectory data of markers attached to the wheelchair-user system during propulsion. All participants propelled the same wheelchair, which had an instrumented wheel with cambers of 0°, 9°, and 15°, respectively, at an average velocity of 1 m/s.ResultsThe results show that the rear-wheel camber significantly affects the average acceleration, maximum end angle, trunk movement, elbow joint movement, wrist joint movement, and propulsion pattern. The effects are especially significant between 0° and 15°. For a 15° camber, the average acceleration and joint peak angles significantly increased (p < 0.01). A single loop pattern (SLOP) was adopted by most of the subjects.ConclusionsThe rear-wheel camber affects propulsion patterns and joint range of motion. When choosing a wheelchair with camber adjustment, the increase of joint movements and the base of support should be taken into consideration. Comparison of walking overground and in a Computer Assisted Rehabilitation Environment (CAREN) in individuals with and without transtibial amputation BackgroundDue to increased interest in treadmill gait training, recent research has focused on the similarities and differences between treadmill and overground walking. Most of these studies have tested healthy, young subjects rather than impaired populations that might benefit from such training. These studies also do not include optic flow, which may change how the individuals integrate sensory information when walking on a treadmill. This study compared overground walking to treadmill walking in a computer assisted virtual reality environment (CAREN) in individuals with and without transtibial amputations (TTA).MethodsSeven individuals with traumatic TTA and 27 unimpaired controls participated. Subjects walked overground and on a treadmill in a CAREN at a normalized speed. The CAREN applied optic flow at the same speed that the subject walked. Temporal-spatial parameters, full body kinematics, and kinematic variability were collected during all trials.ResultsBoth subject groups decreased step time and control subjects decreased step length when walking in the CAREN. Differences in lower extremity kinematics were small (< 2.5○) and did not exceed the minimal detectable change values for these measures. Control subjects exhibited decreased transverse and frontal plane range of motion of the pelvis and trunk when walking in the CAREN, while patients with TTA did not. Both groups exhibited increased step width variability during treadmill walking in the CAREN, but only minor changes in kinematic variability.ConclusionsThe results of this study suggest that treadmill training in a virtual environment should be similar enough to overground that changes should carry over. Caution should be made when comparing step width variability and step time results from studies utilizing a treadmill to those overground. Hyperactivity persists in male and female adults with ADHD and remains a highly discriminative feature of the disorder: a case-control study BackgroundSymptoms of hyperactivity are believed to fade with age leaving ADHD adults mostly inattentive and impulsive. Our aim was to test this assertion using objective measures of hyperactivity, impulsivity and inattention.MethodParticipants were 40 subjects with ADHD (23M/17F; 35±10 yrs) and 60 healthy adults (28M/32F; 29±9 yrs) blindly assessed using Wender-Reimherr interview ratings, Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Disorders and DSM-IV criteria. Infrared motion capture systems tracked head and leg movements during performance of a No-4’s cognitive control task. Subjects also completed the Conners’ CPT-II.ResultsADHD and controls differed significantly in activity and attention. Effect sizes for activity measures (d’ = 0.7–1.6) were, on average, two-fold larger than differences in attention or impulsivity, correlated more strongly with executive function ratings and were more discriminatory (ROC area = 0.83 for activity composite, 0.65 for No-4’s distraction composite, 0.63 for Conners’ CPT-II confidence index, 0.96 for the combined activity and attention diagnostic index). This finding was true for subjects with the predominantly inattentive subtype as well as subjects with combined or predominantly hyperactive/impulsive subtype. Males and females with ADHD were equally active. The superior accuracy of activity measures was confirmed using Random Forest and predictive modeling techniques.ConclusionsObjectively measured hyperactivity persists in adults with ADHD and is a more discriminative feature of the disorder than computerized measures of inattention or impulsivity. This finding supports the hypothesis that a deficient ability to sit still remains a defining feature of the disorder in adults when it is measured objectively. A Novel Evaluation Framework for Teleoperation and a Case Study on Natural Human-Arm-Imitation Through Motion Capture Although tele-operation has a long history, when it comes to tuning, comparison, and evaluation of tele-operation systems, no standard framework exists which can fulfill desiderata such as: concisely modeling multiple aspects of the system as a whole, i.e. timing, accuracy, and event transitions, while also providing for separation of user-, feedback-, as well as learning-dependent components. On the other hand, real-time remote tele-operation of robotic arms, either industrial or humanoid, is highly suitable for a number of applications, especially in difficult or inaccessible environment, and thus such an evaluation framework would be desirable. Usually, teleoperation is driven by buttons, joysticks, haptic controllers, or slave-arms, providing an interface which can be quite cumbersome and unnatural, especially when operating robots with multiple degrees of freedom. Thus, in thus paper, we present a two-fold contribution: (a) a task-based teleoperation evaluation framework which can achieve the desiderata described above, as well as (b) a system for teleoperation of an industrial arm commanded through human-arm motion capture, which is used as a case study, and also serves to illustrate the effectiveness of the evaluation framework that we are introducing. In our system the desired trajectory of a remote robotic arm is easily and naturally controlled through imitation of simple movements of the operator’s physical arm, obtained through motion capture. Furthermore, an extensive real-world evaluation is provided, based on our proposed probabilistic framework, which contains an inter-subject quantitative study with 23 subjects, a longitudinal study with 6 subjects, as well as opinions and attitudes towards tele-operation study. The results provided illustrate the strengths of the proposed evaluation framework—by enabling the quick production of multiple task-, user-, system-, as well as learning-centric results, as well as the benefits of our natural imitation-based approach towards teleoperation. Furthermore, an interesting ordering of preferences towards different potential application areas of teleoperation is indicated by our data. Finally, after illustrating their effectiveness, we discuss how both our evaluation framework as well as teleoperation system presented are not only applicable in a wide variety of teleoperation domains, but are also directly extensible in many beneficial ways. Keyframe-based Learning from Demonstration We present a framework for learning skills from novel types of demonstrations that have been shown to be desirable from a Human–Robot Interaction perspective. Our approach—Keyframe-based Learning from Demonstration (KLfD)—takes demonstrations that consist of keyframes; a sparse set of points in the state space that produces the intended skill when visited in sequence. The conventional type of trajectory demonstrations or a hybrid of the two are also handled by KLfD through a conversion to keyframes. Our method produces a skill model that consists of an ordered set of keyframe clusters, which we call Sequential Pose Distributions (SPD). The skill is reproduced by splining between clusters. We present results from two domains: mouse gestures in 2D and scooping, pouring and placing skills on a humanoid robot. KLfD has performance similar to existing LfD techniques when applied to conventional trajectory demonstrations. Additionally, we demonstrate that KLfD may be preferable when demonstration type is suited for the skill. 3-D–2-D spatiotemporal registration for sports motion analysis Computer systems are increasingly being used for sports training. Existing sports training systems either require expensive 3-D motion capture systems or do not provide intelligent analysis of user’s sports motion. This paper presents a framework for affordable and intelligent sports training systems for general users. The user is assumed to perform the same type of sport motion as an expert, and therefore the performer’s motion is more or less similar to the expert’s reference motion. The performer’s motion is recorded by a single stationary camera, and the expert’s 3-D reference motion is captured only once by a commercial motion capture system. Under such assumptions, sports motion analysis is formulated as a 3-D–2-D spatiotemporal motion registration problem. A novel algorithm is developed to perform spatiotemporal registration of the expert’s 3-D reference motion and a performer’s 2-D input video, thereby computing the deviation of the performer’s motion from the expert’s motion. The algorithm can effectively handle ambiguous situations in a single video such as depth ambiguity of body parts and partial occlusion. Test results on Taichi and golf swing motion show that, despite using only single video, the algorithm can compute 3-D posture errors that reflect the performer’s actual motion error. Markerless estimation of patient orientation, posture and pose using range and pressure imaging n diagnostic tomographic imaging, patient setup and scanner initialization is a manual, tedious procedure in clinical practice. A fully-automatic detection of the patient’s position, orientation, posture and pose on the patient table holds great potential for optimizing this part of the imaging workflow. We propose a markerless framework that is capable of extracting this information within seconds from either range imaging (RI) or pressure imaging (PI) data.MethodsThe proposed method is composed of three stages: First, the position and orientation of the reclined patient are determined. Second, the patient’s posture is classified. Third, based on the estimated orientation and posture, an approximate body pose is recovered by fitting an articulated model to the observed RI/PI data. Being a key issue for clinical application, our approach does not require an initialization pose.ResultsIn a case study on real data from 16 subjects, the performance of the proposed system was evaluated quantitatively with a 3-D time-of-flight RI camera and a pressure sensing mattress (PI). The patient orientation was successfully determined for all subjects, independent of the modality. At the posture recognition stage, our method achieved mean classification rates of 79.4% for RI and 95.5% for PI data, respectively. Concerning the approximate body pose estimation, anatomical body landmarks were localized with an accuracy of ±5.84cm (RI) and ±5.53cm (PI).ConclusionsThe results indicate that an estimation of the patient’s position, orientation, posture and pose using RI and PI sensors, respectively, is feasible, and beneficial for optimizing the workflow in diagnostic tomographic imaging. Both modalities achieved comparable pose estimation results using different models that account for modality-specific characteristics. PI outperforms RI in discriminating between prone and supine postures due to the distinctive pressure distribution of the human body. Gaze anticipation during human locomotion During locomotion, a top-down organization has been previously demonstrated with the head as a stabilized platform and gaze anticipating the horizontal direction of the trajectory. However, the quantitative assessment of the anticipatory sequence from gaze to trajectory and body segments has not been documented. The present paper provides a detailed investigation into the spatial and temporal anticipatory relationships among the direction of gaze and body segments during locomotion. Participants had to walk along several mentally simulated complex trajectories, without any visual cues indicating the trajectory to follow. The trajectory shapes were presented to the participants on a sheet of paper. Our study includes an analysis of the relationships between horizontal gaze anticipatory behavior direction and the upcoming changes in the trajectory. Our findings confirm the following: 1) The hierarchical ordered organization of gaze and body segment orientations during complex trajectories and free locomotion. Gaze direction anticipates the head orientation, and head orientation anticipates reorientation of the other body segments. 2) The influence of the curvature of the trajectory and constraints of the tasks on the temporal and spatial relationships between gaze and the body segments: Increased curvature resulted in increased time and spatial anticipation. 3) A different sequence of gaze movements at inflection points where gaze plans a much later segment of the trajectory. Special Issue on Interactive Robots and Sensor Systems  The integration of size and weight cues for perception and action: evidence for a weight–size illusion Humans routinely estimate the size and weight of objects. Yet, when lifting two objects of equal weight but different size, they often perceive the smaller object as being heavier. This size–weight illusion (SWI) is known to have a lesser effect on motor control of object lifting. How the nervous system combines “weight” and “size” cues with prior experience and whether these cues are differentially integrated for perception and sensorimotor action is still not fully understood. Therefore, we assessed not only whether the experience of size biases weight perception, but also if experience of weight biases the size perception of objects. Further, to investigate differences between perceptual and motor systems for cue-experience integration, participants haptically explored the weight of an object with one hand and then shaped the aperture of their other hand to indicate its perceived size. Results—First, next to a SWI, healthy adults (N = 21) perceived lighter objects as being smaller and heavier objects as being larger, demonstrating a weight–size illusion (WSI). Second, participants were more susceptible to either the SWI or WSI. Third, aperture of the non-exploring hand was scaled to perceived weight and not to physical size. Hand openings were consistently smaller than physical size, with SWI-sensitive participants being significantly more affected than WSI-sensitive subjects. We conclude: first, both size and weight perceptions are biased by prior experience. Weight perception is biased by expectations of size, while size perception is influenced by the expectancy of weight. Second, humans have the tendency to use one cue predominantly for both types of perception. Third, combining perceived weight with expected size influenced hand motor control, while online haptic feedback was largely ignored. Finally, we present a processing model underlying the size–weight cue integration for the perceptual and motor system. Motion Coherent Tracking Using Multi-label MRF Optimization We present a novel off-line algorithm for target segmentation and tracking in video. In our approach, video data is represented by a multi-label Markov Random Field model, and segmentation is accomplished by finding the minimum energy label assignment. We propose a novel energy formulation which incorporates both segmentation and motion estimation in a single framework. Our energy functions enforce motion coherence both within and across frames. We utilize state-of-the-art methods to efficiently optimize over a large number of discrete labels. In addition, we introduce a new ground-truth dataset, called Georgia Tech Segmentation and Tracking Dataset (GT-SegTrack), for the evaluation of segmentation accuracy in video tracking. We compare our method with several recent on-line tracking algorithms and provide quantitative and qualitative performance comparisons. Analyzing shoulder translation with navigation technology PurposeAsymmetric stress imposed on the shoulder can lead to anterior shoulder instability in young athletes who perform repetitive overhead motions. A common treatment, surgical anterior capsule tightening, assumes that the instability is caused by abnormal anterior laxity. This study investigated the possibility that one element of overall imbalance, posterior capsular tightness, could be an underlying reason for shoulder instability. Surgical navigation technology, which is more accurate than whole-body motion-capture systems, was used to study anterior translational motions.MethodThe study was used four cadaver shoulders, with the scapula and rotator cuff muscles intact. Opto-electronic surgical navigation localization devices were mounted on the scapula and humerus to accurately capture positions and orientations. The shoulders were passively moved through 7 motions, 5 of simple angulation and 2 combinations of clinical interest. Each motion was repeated in 4 different soft-tissue states: rotator cuff intact, capsule intact, and surgically induced capsular tightnesses of 5 and 10mm.ResultsThe shoulders had significantly greater anterior translation when the posterior capsule was artificially tightened (p < 0.05); this was particularly in movements that combined abduction with internal or external rotation, which are typical overhead sports motions. Overall translation was indifferent to whether the shoulders were intact or dissected down to the capsule, as was translation during flexion was indifferent to dissection state (p > 0.95).ConclusionSurgical navigation technology can easily be used to analyze cadaveric shoulder motion, with opportunities for adaptation to anesthetized patients. Results suggest that the inverse of artificial tightening, such as surgical release of the posterior capsule, may be an effective minimally invasive treatment of chronic shoulder dislocation subsequent to sports motions. MDL-based time series clustering Time series data are pervasive across all human endeavors, and clustering is arguably the most fundamental data mining application. Given this, it is somewhat surprising that the problem of time series clustering from a single stream remains largely unsolved. Most work on time series clustering considers the clustering of individual time series that have been carefully extracted from their original context, for example, gene expression profiles, individual heartbeats, or individual gait cycles. The few attempts at clustering time series streams have been shown to be objectively incorrect in some cases, and in other cases shown to work only on the most contrived synthetic datasets by carefully adjusting a large set of parameters. In this work, we make two fundamental contributions that allow for the first time, the meaningful clustering of subsequences from a time series stream. First, we show that the problem definition for time series clustering from streams currently used is inherently flawed, and a new definition is necessary. Second, we show that the minimum description length framework offers an efficient, effective, and essentially parameter-free method for time series clustering. We show that our method produces objectively correct results on a wide variety of datasets from medicine, speech recognition, zoology, gesture recognition, and industrial process analyses. Visual tracking of hands, faces and facial features of multiple persons This paper presents an integrated approach for tracking hands, faces and specific facial features (eyes, nose, and mouth) in image sequences. For hand and face tracking, we employ a state-of-the-art blob tracker which is specifically trained to track skin-colored regions. In this paper we extend the skin color tracker by proposing an incremental probabilistic classifier, which can be used to maintain and continuously update the belief about the class of each tracked blob, which can be left-hand, right hand or face as well as to associate hand blobs with their corresponding faces. An additional contribution of this paper is related to the employment of a novel method for the detection and tracking of specific facial features within each detected facial blob which consists of an appearance-based detector and a feature-based tracker. The proposed approach is intended to provide input for the analysis of hand gestures and facial expressions that humans utilize while engaged in various conversational states with robots that operate autonomously in public places. It has been integrated into a system which runs in real time on a conventional personal computer which is located on a mobile robot. Experimental results confirm its effectiveness for the specific task at hand. Background subtraction via incremental maximum margin criterion: a discriminative subspace approach Background subtraction is one of the basic low-level operations in video analysis. The aim is to separate static information called “background” from the moving objects called “foreground”. The background needs to be modeled and updated over time to allow robust foreground detection. Recently, reconstructive subspace learning models, such as principal component analysis (PCA) have been used to model the background by significantly reducing the data’s dimension. This approach is based on the assumption that the main information contained in the training sequence is the background meaning that the foreground has a low contribution. However, this assumption is only verified when the moving objects are either small or far away from the camera. Furthermore, the reconstructive representations strive to be as informative as possible in terms of well approximating the original data. Their objective is mainly to encompass the variability of the training data and so they give more effort to model the background in an unsupervised manner than to precisely classify pixels as foreground or background in the foreground detection. On the other hand, discriminative methods are usually less adapted to the reconstruction of data; although they are spatially and computationally much more efficient and often give better classification results compared with the reconstructive methods. Based on this fact, we propose the use of a discriminative subspace learning model called incremental maximum margin criterion (IMMC). The objective is first to enable a robust supervised initialization of the background and secondly a robust classification of pixels as background or foreground. Furthermore, IMMC also allows us an incremental update of the eigenvectors and eigenvalues. Experimental results on different datasets demonstrate the performance of this proposed approach in the presence of illumination changes. Remote Robotic Laboratories for Learning from Demonstration This paper documents the technology developed during the creation of the PR2 Remote Lab and the process of using it for shared development for Learning from Demonstration. Remote labs enable a larger and more diverse group of researchers to participate directly in state-of-the-art robotics research and will improve the reproducibility and comparability of robotics experiments. We present solutions to interface, control, and design difficulties in the client and server-side software when implementing a remote laboratory architecture. We describe how researchers can interact with the PR2 and its environment remotely through a web interface, as well as develop similar interfaces to visualize and run experiments remotely.Additionally, we describe how the remote lab technology was used by researchers participating in the Robot Learning from Demonstration Challenge (LfD) held in conjunction with the AAAI-11 Conference on Artificial Intelligence. Teams from three institutions used the remote lab as their primary development and testing platform. This paper reviews the process as well as providing observations and lessons learned. Enhancing memory of stair height by the motor experience of stepping A concept emerging from recent studies on obstacle avoidance in quadrupeds is that working memory of the height of an obstacle established by visual information is enhanced by motor interactions with the obstacle. In this investigation, we found that this concept is valid in adult humans when viewing and walking up stairs. The main finding was that the memory of the height of stairs was enhanced when information about stair height was gained by walking up a short flight of stairs compared to when information about stair height was gained by vision alone. By measuring the maximum toe clearance when subjects step onto a stair, we observed that maximum toe clearance increased after diverting vision from the stair for a few seconds prior to stepping. Most of this increase occurred within a 2-s period between diverting vision from the stair and initiating the step. By contrast, this increase in maximum toe clearance after diverting vision from a stair was significantly reduced after subjects walked up two stairs prior to stepping onto a stair without vision. This reduction persisted for delays as long as 10 s between diverting vision from the stair and initiating the step. In four of twelve subjects, the maximum toe clearance after these long periods without vision of the stair was close to the value when steps were made with full vision of the stairs. Development of visual and somatosensory attention of the reach-to-eat movement in human infants aged 6 to 12 months The reach-to-eat movement is a natural act in which an object or food item is grasped and brought to the mouth. It is one of the earliest forelimb behaviours displayed by human infants, who bring almost all grasped objects to the mouth, and is used daily by adults. In adults, there is a tight coupling between visual attention and the advance phase of the reach-to-eat movement. The target is visually engaged just as hand advance is initiated and visually disengaged just as the target is grasped. This coupling of vision and hand advance suggests that advance is mediated by visual attention and withdrawal by somatosensation. The present study examined when the tight coupling between visual attention and the advance phase of the movement develops in infancy. In a longitudinal study, eight infants, aged 6–12 months, and 20 adults reached for familiar inanimate objects and food items. Visual gaze, hand movement and hand accuracy were measured using frame-by-frame video scoring and 2D kinematic analysis. The study found that the youngest infants (6–8 months) visually engaged the target well before initiating a reaching movement and continued to fixate on the target after it was grasped and as it was brought to the mouth. Between 10 and 12 months of age, infants began to visually engage the target just as the reaching movement was initiated and visually disengaged the target as it was grasped, as did the adults. Over the same developmental time period, the infants developed rotatory hand shaping movements, precision grasping, and improved targeting accuracy both for grasping the object and placing it into the mouth. The results suggest that visual guidance of advance and somatosensory guidance of withdrawal develop together and in concert with hand movement ability and skill. Quantified terminal ileal motility during MR enterography as a potential biomarker of Crohn’s disease activity: a preliminary study ObjectiveTo compare quantified terminal ileal (TI) motility during MR enterography (MRE) with histopathological severity of acute inflammation in Crohn’s disease.MethodsA total of 28 Crohn’s patients underwent MRE and endoscopic TI biopsy. Axial and coronal TrueFISP, HASTE and post-gadolinium VIBE images were supplemented by multiple coronal TrueFISP cine motility sequences through the small bowel volume. TI motility index (MI) was quantified using validated software; an acute inflammation score (eAIS; 0–6) was assigned to the biopsy. Two observers qualitatively scored mural thickness, T2 signal, contrast enhancement and perimural oedema (0–3) to produce an activity score (aMRIs) based on anatomical MRI. The association among the MI, eAIS and aMRIs was tested using Spearman’s rank correlation. Wilcoxon rank sum test compared motility in subjects with and without histopathological inflammation.ResultsMean MI and mean eAIS were 0.27 (range 0.06–0.55) and 1.5 (range 0–5), respectively. There was a significant difference in MI between non-inflamed (mean 0.37, range 0.13–0.55) and inflamed (mean 0.19, range 0.06–0.44) TI, P = 0.002, and a significant negative correlation between MI and both eAIS (Rho = −0.52, P = 0.005) and aMRIs (R = −0.7, P < 0.001).ConclusionQuantified TI motility negatively correlates with histopathological measures of disease activity and existing anatomical MRI activity biomarkers.Key Points• Magnetic resonance imaging is increasingly used to assess Crohn’s disease.
                • MRI measurements can provide a quantitative assessment of small bowel motility.
                • MR enterography can grade Crohn’s disease.
                • Small bowel motility can be used as a marker of inflammatory activity. Training dual-task walking in community-dwelling adults within 1 year of stroke: a protocol for a single-blind randomized controlled trial BackgroundCommunity ambulation is a highly complex skill requiring the ability to adapt to increased environmental complexity and perform multiple tasks simultaneously. After stroke, individuals demonstrate a diminished ability to perform dual-tasks. Current evidence suggests that conventional rehabilitation does not adequately address gait-related dual-task impairments after stroke, which may be contributing to low levels of participation and physical inactivity in community-dwelling stroke survivors. The objective of this study is to investigate the efficacy of dual-task gait training in community-dwelling adults within 1 year of stroke. Specifically, we will compare the effects of dual-task gait training and single-task gait training on cognitive-motor interference during walking at preferred speed and at fastest comfortable speed (Aim 1), locomotor control during obstacle negotiation (Aim 2), and spontaneous physical activity (Aim 3).Methods/DesignThis single-blind randomized controlled trial will involve 44 individuals within 12 months of stroke. Following baseline evaluation, participants will be randomly allocated to single- or dual-task gait training. Both groups will receive 12, 30-minute sessions provided one-on-one over 4–6 weeks in an outpatient therapy setting. Single-task gait training involves practice of gait activities incorporating motor relearning principles. Dual-task gait training involves an identical gait training protocol; the critical difference being that the dual-task gait training group will practice the gait activities while simultaneously performing a cognitive task for 75% of the repetitions. Blinded assessors will measure outcomes at baseline, post-intervention, and 6 months after completion of the intervention. The primary outcome measure will be dual-task effects on gait speed and cognition during unobstructed walking. Secondary outcomes include spatiotemporal and kinetic gait parameters during unobstructed single- and dual-task walking at preferred and fastest comfortable walking speeds, gait parameters during high and low obstacle crossing, spontaneous physical activity, executive function, lower extremity motor function, Timed Up and Go, balance self-efficacy, number of falls, and stroke-related disability. Hypotheses for each aim will be tested using an intention-to-treat analysis with repeated measures ANOVA design.DiscussionThis trial will provide evidence to help clinicians make decisions about the types of activities to include in rehabilitation to improve dual-task walking after stroke.Trial registrationClinicalTrials.gov NCT01568957 Kinematic predictors of single-leg squat performance: a comparison of experienced physiotherapists and student physiotherapists BackgroundThe single-leg squat (SLS) is a common test used by clinicians for the musculoskeletal assessment of the lower limb. The aim of the current study was to reveal the kinematic parameters used by experienced and inexperienced clinicians to determine SLS performance and establish reliability of such assessment.MethodsTwenty-two healthy, young adults (23.8 ± 3.1 years) performed three SLSs on each leg whilst being videoed. Three-dimensional data for the hip and knee was recorded using a 10-camera optical motion analysis system (Vicon, Oxford, UK). SLS performance was rated from video data using a 10-point ordinal scale by experienced musculoskeletal physiotherapists and student physiotherapists. All ratings were undertaken a second time at least two weeks after the first by the same raters. Stepwise multiple regression analysis was performed to determine kinematic predictors of SLS performance scores and inter- and intra-rater reliability were determined using a two-way mixed model to generate intra-class correlation coefficients (ICC3,1) of consistency.ResultsOne SLS per leg for each participant was used for analysis, providing 44 SLSs in total. Eight experienced physiotherapists and eight physiotherapy students agreed to rate each SLS. Variance in physiotherapist scores was predicted by peak knee flexion, knee medio-lateral displacement, and peak hip adduction (R2 = 0.64, p = 0.01), while variance in student scores was predicted only by peak knee flexion, and knee medio-lateral displacement (R2 = 0.57, p = 0.01). Inter-rater reliability was good for physiotherapists (ICC3,1 = 0.71) and students (ICC3,1 = 0.60), whilst intra-rater reliability was excellent for physiotherapists (ICC3,1 = 0.81) and good for students (ICC3,1 = 0.71).ConclusionPhysiotherapists and students are both capable of reliable assessment of SLS performance. Physiotherapist assessments, however, bear stronger relationships to lower limb kinematics and are more sensitive to hip joint motion than student assessments. Healthy younger and older adults control foot placement to avoid small obstacles during gait primarily by modulating step width BackgroundFalls are a significant problem in the older population. Most falls occur during gait, which is primarily regulated by foot placement. Variability of foot placement has been associated with falls, but these associations are inconsistent and generally for smooth, level flooring. This study investigates the control of foot placement and the associated gait variability in younger and older men and women (N=7/group, total N=28) while walking at three different speeds (slow, preferred, and fast) across a control surface with no obstacles and surfaces with multiple (64) small (10cm long ×13mm high) visible and hidden obstacles.ResultsMinimum obstacle distance between the shoe and nearest obstacle during each footfall was greater on the visible obstacles surface for older subjects because some of them chose to actively avoid obstacles. This obstacle avoidance strategy was implemented primarily by modulating step width and to a lesser extent step length as indicated by linear regressions of step width and length variability on minimum obstacle distance. Mean gait speed, step length, step width, and step time did not significantly differ by subject group, flooring surface, or obstacle avoidance strategy.ConclusionsSome healthy older subjects choose to actively avoid small obstacles that do not substantially perturb their gait by modulating step width and, to a lesser extent, step length. It is not clear if this obstacle avoidance strategy is appropriate and beneficial or overcautious and maladaptive, as it results in fewer obstacles encountered at a consequence of a less efficient gait pattern that has been shown to indicate increased fall risk. Further research is needed on the appropriateness of strategy selection when the environmental demands and/or task requirements have multiple possible completion strategies with conflicting objectives (i.e. perceived safety vs. efficiency). Coupled Action Recognition and Pose Estimation from Multiple Views Action recognition and pose estimation are two closely related topics in understanding human body movements; information from one task can be leveraged to assist the other, yet the two are often treated separately. We present here a framework for coupled action recognition and pose estimation by formulating pose estimation as an optimization over a set of action-specific manifolds. The framework allows for integration of a 2D appearance-based action recognition system as a prior for 3D pose estimation and for refinement of the action labels using relational pose features based on the extracted 3D poses. Our experiments show that our pose estimation system is able to estimate body poses with high degrees of freedom using very few particles and can achieve state-of-the-art results on the HumanEva-II benchmark. We also thoroughly investigate the impact of pose estimation and action recognition accuracy on each other on the challenging TUM kitchen dataset. We demonstrate not only the feasibility of using extracted 3D poses for action recognition, but also improved performance in comparison to action recognition using low-level appearance features. Keypoints and Local Descriptors of Scalar Functions on 2D Manifolds This paper addresses the problem of describing surfaces using local features and descriptors. While methods for the detection of interest points in images and their description based on local image features are very well understood, their extension to discrete manifolds has not been well investigated. We provide a methodological framework for analyzing real-valued functions defined over a 2D manifold, embedded in the 3D Euclidean space, e.g., photometric information, local curvature, etc. Our work is motivated by recent advancements in multiple-camera reconstruction and image-based rendering of 3D objects: there is a growing need for describing object surfaces, matching two surfaces, or tracking them over time. Considering polygonal meshes, we propose a new methodological framework for the scale-space representations of scalar functions defined over such meshes. We propose a local feature detector (MeshDOG) and region descriptor (MeshHOG). Unlike the standard image features, the proposed surface features capture both the local geometry of the underlying manifold and the scale-space differential properties of the real-valued function itself. We provide a thorough experimental evaluation. The repeatability of the feature detector and the robustness of feature descriptor are tested, by applying a large number of deformations to the manifold or to the scalar function. Individual differences in motor planning during a multi-segment object manipulation task Research has demonstrated that people will adopt initially awkward grasps if they afford more comfortable postures at the end of the movement. This end-state comfort effect provides evidence that humans represent future posture states and select appropriate grasps in anticipation of these postures. The purpose of the study was to examine to what extent the final action goal of a task influences motor planning of preceding segments, and whether grasp postures are planned to optimize end-state comfort during a three-segment action sequence in which two objects are manipulated, and participants can select from a continuous range of possible grasp postures. In the current experiment, participants opened a drawer, grasped an object from inside the drawer, and placed it on a table in one of the three target orientations (0°, 90°, or 180° object rotation required). Grasp postures during the initial movement segment (drawer opening) were not influenced by the final action goal (i.e., required target orientation). In contrast, both the intermediate (i.e., object grasping) and the final movement segment (i.e., object placing) were influenced by target orientation. In addition, participants adopted different strategies to achieve the action goal when the object required 180° rotation, with 42 % of participants prioritizing intermediate-state comfort and 58 % prioritizing end-state comfort. The results indicate that individuals optimize task performance by selecting lower level constraints that allow for successful completion of the action goal and that the selection of these constraints is dependent upon contextual, environmental, and internal influences. Construction with quadrotor teams We propose a new paradigm for construction in which teams of quadrotor helicopters assemble 2.5-D structures from simple structural nodes and members equipped with magnets. The structures, called Special Cubic Structures (SCS), are a class of 2.5-D truss-like structures free of overhangs and holes. Quadrotors equipped with grippers pick up, transport, and assemble the structural elements. The design of the nodes and members imposes constraints on assembly, which are incorporated into the design of the algorithms used for assembly. We show that any SCS can be built using only the feasible assembly modes for individual structural elements and present simulation and experimental results for a team of quadrotors performing automated assembly. The paper includes a theoretical analysis of the SCS construction algorithm, the rationale for the design of the structural nodes, members and quadrotor gripper, a description of the quadrotor control methods for part pickup, transport and assembly, and an empirical analysis of system performance. Human motion recognition using a wireless sensor-based wearable system The future of human computer interaction systems lies in how intelligently these systems can take into account the user’s context. Research on recognizing the daily activities of people has progressed steadily, but little focus has been devoted to recognizing jointly activities as well as movements in a specific activity. For many applications such as rehabilitation, sports medicine, geriatric care, and health/fitness monitoring the importance of combined recognition of activity and movements can drive health care outcomes. A novel algorithm is proposed that can be tuned to recognize on-the-fly range of activities and fine movements within a specific activity. Performance of the algorithm and a case study on obtaining optimal features from sensor and parameter values for the algorithm to detect fine motor movements are presented. Timekeeping strategies operate independently from spatial and accuracy demands in beat-interception movements The prevailing paradigm for researching sensorimotor synchronisation in humans involves finger tapping and temporal accuracy measures. However, many successful sensorimotor synchronisation actions require not only to be ‘in time’, but also to be in a predefined spatial position. Reaching this spatial position in many everyday actions often exceeds the average amplitude of a finger movement. The aim of this study is to address how people coordinate their movement to be in the right place at the right time when the scale of the movement varies. Does the scale of the movement and accuracy demands of the movement change the ability to accurately synchronise? To address these questions, a sensorimotor synchronisation task with three different inter-beat intervals, two different movement amplitudes and two different target widths was used. Our experiment demonstrated that people use different timing strategies—employing either a movement strategy (varying movement time) or a waiting strategy (keeping movement time constant) for large-scale movements. Those two strategies were found to be equally successful in terms of temporal accuracy and variability (spread of errors). With longer interval durations (2.5 and 3.5 s), variability of sensorimotor synchronisation performance increased (measured as the spread of errors). Analysing the data using the Vorberg and Wing (Handbook of perception and action. Academic Press, New York, pp 181–262, 1996) model shows a need to develop further existing timing models of sensorimotor synchronisation so that they could apply to large-scale movements, where different movement strategies naturally emerge. Non-contact physical activity estimation method based on electrostatic induction technique We here present a method for measuring human physical activity, which is based on detecting the electrostatic induction current generated by the walking motion under non-contact and non-attached conditions. A theoretical model for the electrostatic induction current generated because of a change in the electric potential of the human body is also proposed. By comparing the obtained electrostatic induction current with the theoretical model, it becomes obvious that this model effectively explains the behavior of the waveform of the electrostatic induction current. The normal walking motions of daily living are recorded using a portable sensor measurement located in an ordinary house. The obtained results show that detailed information regarding physical activity such as a walking cycle can be estimated using our proposed technique. This suggests that the proposed technique, which is based on the detection of the walking signal, can be successfully applied to the estimation of human physical activity. Control of real-world complex robots using a biologically inspired algorithm Elementary living beings, like bacteria, are able to reach food sources using only limited and very noisy sensory information. In this paper, we describe a very simple algorithm inspired from bacteria chemotaxis. We present a Markov chain model for studying the effect of noise on the behavior of an agent that moves according to this algorithm, and we show that, counterintuitively, the application of noise can increase the expected average performance over a fixed available time. After this theoretical analysis, experiments on real-world application of this algorithm are introduced. In particular, we show that the algorithm is able to control a complex robot arm, actuated by 17 McKibben pneumatic artificial muscles, without the need of any model of the robot or of its environment. Perceiving bodies in motion: expression intensity, empathy, and experience This study investigated the perceptual identification of individuals’ intended expression intensity in point-light displays depicting dance. Participants watched point-light displays of 200–1,000-ms duration, as well as static displays, of expressive and inexpressive dance performances. The task was to identify the intended expression intensity of the performer. The results indicate that expression intensity could be discerned reliably only from dynamic displays, even when they were as short as 200 ms, though the accuracy of judgments increased with exposure duration. Judgment accuracy for dynamic displays was positively correlated with self-report empathy indices and confidence in judgments. Accuracy for these displays also correlated with indices of informal music and dance experience. The findings are discussed in relation to sensorimotor and cognitive-emotional processes underlying action understanding and social cognition. Getting a grip: different actions and visual guidance of the thumb and finger in precision grasping We manipulated the visual information available for grasping to examine what is visually guided when subjects get a precision grip on a common class of object (upright cylinders). In Experiment 1, objects (2 sizes) were placed at different eccentricities to vary the relative proximity to the participant’s (n = 6) body of their thumb and finger contact positions in the final grip orientations, with vision available throughout or only for movement programming. Thumb trajectories were straighter and less variable than finger paths, and the thumb normally made initial contact with the objects at a relatively invariant landing site, but consistent thumb first-contacts were disrupted without visual guidance. Finger deviations were more affected by the object’s properties and increased when vision was unavailable after movement onset. In Experiment 2, participants (n = 12) grasped ‘glow-in-the-dark’ objects wearing different luminous gloves in which the whole hand was visible or the thumb or the index finger was selectively occluded. Grip closure times were prolonged and thumb first-contacts disrupted when subjects could not see their thumb, whereas occluding the finger resulted in wider grips at contact because this digit remained distant from the object. Results were together consistent with visual feedback guiding the thumb in the period just prior to contacting the object, with the finger more involved in opening the grip and avoiding collision with the opposite contact surface. As people can overtly fixate only one object contact point at a time, we suggest that selecting one digit for online guidance represents an optimal strategy for initial grip placement. Other grasping tasks, in which the finger appears to be used for this purpose, are discussed. Naturalistic arm movements during obstacle avoidance in 3D and the identification of movement primitives By studying human movement in the laboratory, a number of regularities and invariants such as planarity and the principle of isochrony have been discovered. The theoretical idea has gained traction that movement may be generated from a limited set of movement primitives that would encode these invariants. In this study, we ask if invariants and movement primitives capture naturalistic human movement. Participants moved objects to target locations while avoiding obstacles using unconstrained arm movements in three dimensions. Two experiments manipulated the spatial layout of targets, obstacles, and the locations in the transport movement where an obstacle was encountered. We found that all movement trajectories were planar, with the inclination of the movement plane reflecting the obstacle constraint. The timing of the movement was consistent with both global isochrony (same movement time for variable path lengths) and local isochrony (same movement time for two components of the obstacle avoidance movement). The identified movement primitives of transport (movement from start to target position) and lift (movement perpendicular to transport within the movement plane) varied independently with obstacle conditions. Their scaling accounted for the observed double peak structure of movement speed. Overall, the observed naturalistic movement was astoundingly regular. Its decomposition into primitives suggests simple mechanisms for movement generation. Finite Element Analysis Examining the Effects of Cam FAI on Hip Joint Mechanical Loading Using Subject-Specific Geometries During Standing and Maximum Squat Background:Cam femoroacetabular impingement (FAI) can impose elevated mechanical loading in the hip, potentially leading to an eventual mechanical failure of the joint. Since in vivo data on the pathomechanisms of FAI are limited, it is still unclear how this deformity leads to osteoarthritis.Purpose:The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of cam FAI on hip joint mechanical loading using finite element analysis, by incorporating subject-specific geometries, kinematics, and kinetics.Questions:The research objectives were to address and determine: (1) if hips with cam FAI demonstrate higher maximum shear stresses, in comparison with control hips; (2) the magnitude of the peak maximum shear stresses; and (3) the locations of the peak maximum shear stresses.Methods:Using finite element analysis, two patient models were control-matched and simulated during quasi-static positions from standing to squatting. Intersegmental hip forces, from a previous study, were applied to the subject-specific hip geometries, segmented from CT data, to evaluate the maximum shear stresses on the acetabular cartilage and underlying bone.Results:Peak maximum shear stresses were found at the anterosuperior region of the underlying bone during squatting. The peaks at the anterosuperior acetabulum were substantially higher for the patients (15.2 ± 1.8 MPa) in comparison with the controls (4.5 ± 0.1 MPa).Conclusions:Peaks were not situated on the cartilage, but instead located on the underlying bone. The results correspond with the locations of initial cartilage degradation observed during surgical treatment and from MRI.Clinical Relevance:These findings support the pathomechanism of cam FAI. Changes may originate from the underlying subchondral bone properties rather than direct shear stresses to the articular cartilage. The Accuracy of the Use of Functional Hip Motions on Localization of the Center of the Hip BackgroundThe hip joint is generally considered a ball-and-socket joint, the center of which is used as an anatomic landmark in functional analyses and by surgical navigation systems. The location of the hip center has been estimated using functional techniques using various limb motions. However, it is not clear which specific motions best predicted the functional center.PurposeThis study aims to compare the predicted functional center of the hip evaluated from multiplanar circumduction and star motions, and to compare this functional center with the geometric center.MethodsEight hips in four fresh–frozen cadavers were used and verified as morphologically normal in CT scans. Three-dimensional motion of each lower limb was recorded using arrays of reflective markers rigidly attached to the femur and pelvis. Each hip was manipulated to produce circumduction or star motion, i.e., abduction–adduction and flexion extension. The hip was then dissected and the bearing surface traced with a probe, from which a best-fit sphere was calculated. The functional center was calculated from the motion data and compared to the geometric technique.ResultsThere was no difference between the functional hip center predicted by circumduction or star motions, although this was offset from the geometric hip center by up to 14 mm. For all except two hips, the functional center was less than 6 mm from the geometric hip in each anatomic direction. Test–retest differences were smaller for circumduction than for star motions.ConclusionsEstimation of the hip center based on motion of the femur relative to the pelvis could localize the geometric center of the joint within 14 mm and circumduction motions were more repeatable.Clinical RelevanceMany surgical navigation systems make use of the functional hip center as a landmark for alignment or reconstruction. Errors associated with this would have a very minor influence in lower limb alignment, e.g., for knee reconstruction, but could affect proximal femoral geometry relevant to hip reconstruction. Augmented visual feedback of movement performance to enhance walking recovery after stroke: study protocol for a pilot randomised controlled trial BackgroundIncreasing evidence suggests that use of augmented visual feedback could be a useful approach to stroke rehabilitation. In current clinical practice, visual feedback of movement performance is often limited to the use of mirrors or video. However, neither approach is optimal since cognitive and self-image issues can distract or distress patients and their movement can be obscured by clothing or limited viewpoints. Three-dimensional motion capture has the potential to provide accurate kinematic data required for objective assessment and feedback in the clinical environment. However, such data are currently presented in numerical or graphical format, which is often impractical in a clinical setting. Our hypothesis is that presenting this kinematic data using bespoke visualisation software, which is tailored for gait rehabilitation after stroke, will provide a means whereby feedback of movement performance can be communicated in a more meaningful way to patients. This will result in increased patient understanding of their rehabilitation and will enable progress to be tracked in a more accessible way.MethodsThe hypothesis will be assessed using an exploratory (phase II) randomised controlled trial. Stroke survivors eligible for this trial will be in the subacute stage of stroke and have impaired walking ability (Functional Ambulation Classification of 1 or more). Participants (n = 45) will be randomised into three groups to compare the use of the visualisation software during overground physical therapy gait training against an intensity-matched and attention-matched placebo group and a usual care control group. The primary outcome measure will be walking speed. Secondary measures will be Functional Ambulation Category, Timed Up and Go, Rivermead Visual Gait Assessment, Stroke Impact Scale-16 and spatiotemporal parameters associated with walking. Additional qualitative measures will be used to assess the participant’s experience of the visual feedback provided in the study.DiscussionResults from the trial will explore whether the early provision of visual feedback of biomechanical movement performance during gait rehabilitation demonstrates improved mobility outcomes after stroke and increased patient understanding of their rehabilitation.Trial registrationCurrent Controlled Trials ISRCTN79005974