An ear for education: the sonic mode of address in education studies (review essay)  Accessing movies based on emotional impact Emotions play a central role in our daily lives, influencing the way we think and act, our health and sense of well-being, and films are by excellence the form of art that exploits our affective, perceptual and intellectual activity, holding the potential for a significant impact. Video is becoming a dominant and pervasive medium, and online video a growing entertainment activity on the web and iTV, mainly due to technological developments and the trends for media convergence. In addition, the improvement of new techniques for gathering emotional information about videos, both through content analysis or user implicit feedback through user physiological signals complemented in manual labeling from users, is revealing new ways for exploring emotional information in videos, films or TV series, and brings out new perspectives to enrich and personalize video access. In this work, we reflect on the power that emotions have in our lives, on the emotional impact of movies, and on how to address this emotional dimension in the way we classify and access movies, by exploring and evaluating the design of iFelt in its different ways to classify, access, browse and visualize movies based on their emotional impact. Multimodal Children’s E-Books Help Young Learners in Reading Many children struggle with reading and are seldom engaged in this process when teachers assign them to read. Young learners may lack motivation to read an dislike this activity because they have had frequently have unpleasant experiences with reading. If educators fail to provide support for struggling readers, these pupils will likely experience academic problems in later years. One strategy that instructors can implement to provide help for students who perform poorly in reading is to teach reading with multimodal e-books. Multimodal e-books are interactive electronic resources that combine text with sound, animation, and images and often include text that is read aloud and highlighted. The purpose of this article is to discuss how teachers can use multimodal e-books to help children make academic gains in reading and to provide guidelines for selecting good interactive e-books. Also included in this article is an annotated bibliography of CD-ROMs and e-book apps for children. Aging and Reverse-aging Traditional Chinese Painting Images Based on Web-Mining Traditional Chinese painting has a long history more than thousands of year. No matter when these paintings are drawn, all suffer deterioration caused both by aging and external forces. Restoring damaged artworks involves very professional issues beyond the scope of computer science. However, retouching their images with aging/reverse-aging effects throws down a very interesting challenge to us.Unfortunately, it is very difficult to physically simulate the optical properties of aging pigments and surface material. In addition, the conventional image processing approaches fail to consider the above-mentioned factors, as well as historical trends in color selection and utilization.This paper proposes a knowledge-based and progressive refinement approach to simulate and remove the aging effects in the images of traditional Chinese paintings. Web mining is an important technique which supports this approach by a large number of the source images. A database of information related to degrees of color fade over time is constructed by collecting, categorizing, and analyzing the images of paintings from different eras. In addition, relationships among color distribution histograms, the different subjects being depicted, the year or dynasty the painting was created, and the properties of different pigments are also tracked.To separate the aging coloration influence of pigment from surface, the untouched areas, which are intentionally left blank as a common motif in traditional Chinese paintings, are utilized to provide a useful clue. The acquired data are then modified and feedbacked into our system to progressively refine the results. At the final rendering stage, several image processing techniques are applied to further enhance image quality.By using our prototype system, both aging and reverse-aging processes can be simulated. Initial study results show that this approach has great potential in simulating aging effects on images of traditional Chinese paintings. “It’s easier to read on the Internet—you just click on what you want to read…” Today’s youth spend a lot of time on the Internet where they meet a multimodal world. The focus in the present study has been on the skills and abilities needed for on-line reading. This study explores reading on the Internet, with pairs of Swedish students aged 10 and 15. The pairs completed tasks on the Internet and these sessions were video-taped. Five main categories of skills and abilities were found: traditional literacy, multimodal literacy, path-finding, IT abilities, and information abilities. The results support earlier research in the field at large, and also add to the literature on on-line reading, in areas such as the crucial need for the ability to spell and knowing web address conventions in English. Informal learning organizations as part of an educational ecology: Lessons from collaboration across the formal-informal divide How do informal learning organizations work with schools as part of a broader educational ecology? We examined this question through a comparative case study of two collaborative efforts whereby informal arts education organizations, a children’s museum and a community-based organization, worked with an urban school district to redefine the provision of educational services for children and youth. Grounded conceptually in organizational theory, our study identified factors that enable and constrain collaboration across the formal-informal divide. We argue that examining the dynamics of cross-sector collaboration as occurring within a regional ecology of diverse learning organizations and broader institutional context provides insights into the outcomes of joint work. Our findings have implications for designing collaborations between schools and informal organizations that contribute to their respective strength, as well as the broader regional educational ecology in which they reside. Digital Physical Activity Data Collection and Use by Endurance Runners and Distance Cyclists The introduction of sensor technologies to sports has allowed athletes to quantify and track their performance, adding an information-based layer to athletic practices. This information layer is particularly prevalent in practices involving formal competition and high levels of physical endurance, such as biking and running. We interviewed 20 athletes who participated in distance cycling or endurance running and also had experience using these technologies. This paper presents two cases and a number of shorter descriptive examples from these interviews that illustrate the factors salient to the introduction of these athletes to their respective sports, their continued participation in running or cycling, and their use of physical activity data. The effects of these data and logging practices among these individuals are examined, including some of the tensions that these athletes have with respect to quantifications of their performance and how they see themselves as athletic individuals in light of the increased presence of digital data. Educational implications are also discussed. Flow of innovation in deviantArt: following artists on an online social network site Computer and communication technologies created new modes of creating and sharing arts. In this paper, we apply ‘diffusion of innovation’ theory to investigate how artistic content travels in an online social network site called deviantArt, a site designed for sharing user-generated artworks. We first define what innovation corresponds to in such a context, and then discuss how it can be measured with the help of network, image and text analysis methods. We propose to use user-shared resources as relatively easy targets of tracking innovation. Real-time image marbleization We present a new real-time image marbleization method that converts an image into a marble-like appearance automatically. The approach models the marbleization process as a two-dimensional fluid dynamics problem, whereby color advection of an input image results in a marbleized image. During the fluid dynamics simulation, we add a pixel-level external force field which is tangent to salient features in the image. The forces are computed from the image characteristics without user intervention. A stylized image with marble-like appearance is easily created that maintains the basic shape of objects in the input image. The entire modeling framework is implemented on a graphics processing unit, thus enabling real-time visual feedback. This approach provides a new tool to design figurative marbling textures without mixing of colors, which are almost impossible with previous computer-generated marbling methods. Psychedelic vision  Spatialized Audio Environmental Awareness for Blind Users with a Smartphone Numerous projects have investigated assistive navigation technologies for the blind community, tackling challenges ranging from interface design to sensory substitution. However, none of these have successfully integrated what we consider to be the three factors necessary for a widely deployable system that delivers a rich experience of one’s environment: implementation on a commodity device, use of a pre-existing worldwide point of interest (POI) database, and a means of rendering the environment that is superior to a naive playback of spoken text. Our “In Situ Audio Services” (ISAS) application responds to these needs, allowing users to explore an urban area without necessarily having a particular destination in mind. We describe the technical aspects of its implementation, user requirements, interface design, safety concerns, POI data source issues, and further requirements to make the system practical on a wider basis. Initial qualitative feedback from blind users is also discussed. Reflections towards an agenda for urban-designing the digital city This article deals with the increasingly digital augmentation of urban space and looks at how so far initiatives in this sense have been deployed in a way that is disconnected from urban design knowledge and practice. The aim here is to contribute to a reflection on how urban design perspectives can – and should – play an important role in informing such developments. It promotes, through a series of observations on tensions between digital and physical dimensions of space, the need to design ‘augmented’ space as a whole, mobilising the ‘digital’ to positively reinforcing place. This, the article argues, can be achieved through attention to a series of principles, which can be part of an urban design agenda for digitally enhanced places. Design of trustworthy smartphone-based multimedia services in cultural environments Smartphone is a dynamic new media that faces high popularity due to its versatile services and the friendliness of its usage. It can be used in many activities of everyday life from e-commerce to e-tourism. In this work, we study smartphone’s secure usability in cultural heritage sites and environments. Our goal is to make a first attempt towards a trustworthy commercial multimedia guiding system targeting cultural sites that will be executed in a set of smartphones. More specifically, we are interested in how the needs of curators and visitors, experts or not, of a cultural heritage site can be facilitated by the provided multimedia guiding services of smartphones employing trustworthy implementations of smartphone services that are controlled by a central server. Furthermore, we make an attempt to propose a simple business model for the commercial exploitation of such services. Author brief biography  Cylindrical panoramic mosaicing from a pipeline video through MRF based optimization Stratum structure detection is a fundamental problem in geological engineering. One of the most commonly employed detection technologies is to shoot videos of a borehole using a forward moving camera. Using this technology, the problem of stratum structure detection is transformed into the problem of constructing a panoramic image from a low quality video. In this paper, we propose a novel method for creating a panoramic image of a borehole from a video sequence without the need of camera calibration and tracking. To stitch together pixels of neighboring image frames, our camera model is designed with a focal length changing feature, along with a small rotational freedom in the two-dimensional image space. Our camera model assumes that target objects lie on a cylindrical wall and that the camera moves forward along the central axis of the cylindrical wall. Based on these two assumptions, our method robustly resolves these two degrees-of-freedoms in our camera model through KLT feature tracking. Since the quality of the result video is affected by possible illumination overflow, camera lens blurring, and low video resolution, we introduce a cost function for eliminating seams between stitching strips. Our cost function is designed based on Markov Random Field and optimized using a belief propagation algorithm. Using our method, we can automatically construct a panorama image with good resolution, smoothness, and continuousness both in the texture and illumination space. Experiment results show that our method could efficiently generate panoramas for long video sequences with satisfying visual quality. Developing a video game metadata schema for the Seattle Interactive Media Museum As interest in video games increases, so does the need for intelligent access to them. However, traditional organizational systems and standards fall short. To fill this gap, we are collaborating with the Seattle Interactive Media Museum to develop a formal metadata schema for video games. In the paper, we describe how the schema was established from a user-centered design approach and introduce the core elements from our schema. We also discuss the challenges we encountered as we were conducting a domain analysis and cataloging real-world examples of video games. Inconsistent, vague, and subjective sources of information for title, genre, release date, feature, region, language, developer and publisher information confirm the importance of developing a standardized description model for video games. A case study of user immersion-based systematic design for serious heritage games Modern digital technologies support the preservation and transfer of cultural heritage information via devices and applications such as digital storage systems, electronic books and virtual museums. Advances in virtual and augmented reality, real-time computer graphics and computer games have made it possible to construct large virtual environments in which users may experience cultural heritage through a variety of interactions and immersions. Thus, an emerging problem is to implement an appropriate systematic design method for achieving various types of entertainment, learning and information transfer. This paper proposes two important design factors that impact on user immersion in serious heritage games: user interface space volume and subsystem sequence. The impact of the two factors on proposed systematic design methods was investigated through comparative studies by implementing a serious heritage game system on three different platforms. Study on the Popularity Phenomenon of Digital Media Art City public art exists in city’s public places, based on the self function and the connotative requirement of city. The public art media under the influences of digital age refers to those introduced digital content, mainly like the modem city public art with virtual display ad the city public art with the controlling of computer to achieve certain interactive functions. With the development of the times, artistic form and media materials are also changing. The selection of media materials in city public art under the background of the digital age becomes increasingly diverse. Media materials which involves the integration of the latest achievements in digital technology, will comprehensively apply a variety of imaging, inductive devices. Thus, makes the interaction of public art more prominent, meanwhile it provides a strong material and technical support with the development of public art in the future. Freedom and Constraints in Creativity  Storytelling and the Use of Social Media in Digital Art Installations In recent times new story formats have appeared along with new media channels that allow more reach and target a broader pool of authors and audiences. This paper investigates the repurposing of a Solari Udine airport split-flap display as a new public channel/medium for storytelling. We explored the potential of this repurposed display through a high fidelity prototype positioned in a high density and flow area at the main entrance to a regional university. The content displayed consisted of stories by published authors as well as passersby. Stories could be sent to the display via Twitter, SMS and Facebook. We observed and reported the reactions of the invited authors as well as of the public. Through the analysis of the data collected with this study, we aim at advancing and supporting the design of interactive storytelling installations in public spaces. Art Design Based on Digital Image Processing Software Digital image processing software refers to the use of a computer or other digital equipment to carry on a variety of processing and treatment for image information, and to meet people’s visual and application requirements’ application software. Through the digital process principle of digital processing software and the number of objects to indicate digital processing software in the application of art design, and to further explain the digital image processing software that is used in art design advantages, it will be artistic inspiration of the human and the combination of rational thinking and digital image processing software, to create a form more, effect more distinct, esthetic sense more independent art works. On the Tangible Boundary between Real and Virtual Adrien M/Claire B is an art practice investigating digital and living arts founded in 2004. The practice creates performances ranging from shows to exhibits, mixing the real and virtual realms, thanks to their own customized digital tools. They focus on the human dimension and body, which they place at the centre of the technological and artistic challenges, using contemporary tools to create timeless poetry, and to build and bring into play a visual language based on amusement and delight, eliciting imagination. The artistic project is currently led by Adrien Mondot and Claire Bardainne. Human Computation in Electronic Literature This chapter situates and considers several different facets of human computation in electronic literature and digital art. Electronic literature encompasses works in literary forms that are particular to the computer or the network context. Human computation is examined as an element of the development of collective narratives online, in which different roles are defined in architectures of participation. The form, structure, and common features of notable human-computation based artworks are identified. The human computation processes of collectively written and internet-harvested haiku generators are contrasted with each other to reveal their different models of situating the relationship between computational process and human authorship. Literary meta-critiques of human computation technologies such as Google’s machine reading of Gmail and reCAPTCHA’s use of human language recognition are discussed as electronic literature is positioned in a critical, if symbiotic, relationship to human computation. Digital Media Art Applying Physical Game Technology Using Gesture Recognition In this study, we propose Digital media art to experience a virtual reality applying physical game using gesture recognition technology and describe its application based on the concept. Gesture and gesture recognition refer to HCI (Human Computer Interaction) is an important concept. Therefore, we produce the Digital media art calls ’Thrill Seekers’. ’Thrill Seekers’ is for simulating Experimental game interfaces which offers an amusement while experiment the virtual environment. The using device Kinect is a motion sensing input device. Existing Kinect game is already popular in physical interaction; action-based games, with its sensing technology. However, we use Kinect with open library program ‘Processing’ to create virtual game interface for people who enjoy thrills the most. Creative Expression After examining animated phenomena that are pervasive in such domains as user interfaces and digital entertainment, this chapter looks at the phenomenon of liveliness in the realm of art, which has long been a platform for humans to express, to interrogate, and to experiment. Contrasting with the previous types of digital artifacts in terms of creators’ intentions or consumers’ motivations, fine art practice still shares some features with them in animated phenomenal terms. Many works of art, such as mobile sculptures by Alexander Calder, mechanical automata by Jacques de Vaucanson, and others, revolve around the illusion of life, not to mention numerous arthouse animated movies. For an expanded illusion of life, works of digital art are particularly illustrative. By ‘digital art’ I mean the field of work whose discourse processes rely on the use of digital technology. This kind of work usually incorporates computer programs to produce variable and dynamic instances that show autonomous, reactive, transformative, and contingent behaviors. Hence, John Conway’s Game of Life (1970) as mentioned in Chapter 3 belongs to the category by definition. The tiny but distinctive program, as the name tells, simulates the mechanics of evolution on the cellular level and projects an image of life on a two-dimensional plane. The pixels in the grid turn on and off continuously and responsively in a seemingly autonomous fashion, resulting in a diverging pattern similar to the evolution of cells. Audio-Visual Documentation Method for Digital Storytelling for a Multimedia Art Project In this paper, we describe an interactive multimedia art project, namely FaceGrid, using mosaic photography art concept for digital storytelling. Inspired by mosaic photography and a montage concept, FaceGrid was produced by using many small image tiles that were woven and stitched together to form the pixel art design pattern. FaceGrid documents the different ways of living and lifestyles of ordinary folks in a multi-cultural and diverse ethnic society in Malaysia. We use audio-visual documentation methods (photography and film-documentary techniques) to record, capture and archive the different facets of lives and user stories by ordinary people. We then transform those slices of life via digital storytelling technique into an interactive multimedia art project. Aisthésis of Communication Visualization through Twitter As technology develops, the communication methods are diversified, and, among them, the social network service (SNS) becomes popular by spreading intuitive and instant messages in cyber-physical space. Due to its unique features, this SNS-based communication inspires many media artists, who produced the visualized artworks after analyzing and extracting text messages on the SNS. We produce a prototype for interactive art installations, which involves audiences, analyzes the Twitter messages between audiences and many others, and visualizes the data on the screen in 3D, so that the audiences can experience and enjoy sensual Aisthésis of their communications. The works are made as follows. Once the Twitter messages are sent to the randomly designated accounts, they are animated by varying properties, such as the translation, rotation, font size, and color, and then the animated messages overlay with the existing messages that other audiences already sent. The animation follows either predefined shapes or paths, changes the velocity of message, and swings the individual letters of messages randomly. (To better express the process of mutual communications through twitter messages,) We also visualize the animated messages in 3D space that allows changing camera viewing and lighting, and divide messages into letter by letter so that each letter are able to be animated as a single object. The Past, Present, and Future Encounters between Computation and the Humanities The philosophy of Artificial Intelligence has traditionally focused its efforts on the critical assessment of concepts and theories emerging from the concrete work done in Artificial Intelligence and Cognitive Science. Classic examples are the sustained critique that Herbert Dreyfus has been pursuing since the early 1970s [14, 15, 16] and John Searle’s critique of “strong AI” [47]. Margaret Boden’s collection [4] epitomizes this approach, whose underlying assumption accepts Artificial Intelligence as a non-philosophical scientific discipline that may be susceptible to the standard epistemological analysis that philosophers carry out on physics, biology, and other scientific disciplines. The Designing Expressions of the Special Visual Effect Film in the Digital Technology From 1950 when computer technology began to undertake the creation of computer art, the creation of these “digital works” became a new tool and medium for artistic expression. This also had a major impact on visual artistic expression. This paper takes science fiction movies as the textual source of its research and analyzes the commercial messaging and artistic expression of thematic images within the cinematic arts. Vector-Projection Approach to Curve Framing for Extruded Surfaces Curve framing has numerous applications in computer graphics modeling, e.g., in the construction of extruded surfaces. Commonly used curve framing techniques such as the Frenet frame, parallel transport frame and ‘up-vector’ frame cannot handle all types of curves. Mismatch between the technique used and the curve being modeled may result in the extruded surfaces being twisted. We propose a simple end-to-end vector-projection approach to curve framing. Our results show that the technique yields less twists compared to those based on the Frenet frame. Digital Circlism as Algorithmic Art We present here an algorithmic solution to digital circlism, which is a contemporary rendition style in the media of digital art. The algorithmic artwork is processed within a few minutes by our algorithm, which makes it computationally attractive in comparison with its manual counterpart that requires tremendous diligence and apt craftsmanship throughout its hour-long processing. We show how the problem is mapped to circle packing in discrete space, once the segmentation is done. A greedy technique similar to the dynamic programming approach for solving the coin denomination problem is used to achieve the packing result. To aid the greedy technique, progressive Euclidean distance transform is resorted to. Variability of the denomination set and color rendition based on mapping the original color range to Macbeth color chart add to its further appeal. Results on different kinds of images speak about further possibilities of this new style of algorithmic art. Ludic Engagement Designs: Creating Spaces for Playful Learning The learning within and the design of a learning (or therapeutic) situation constitutes a situated activity with inherent actions and interventions. The participant profile influences the facilitator’s decisions on how to set up the attributes of the environment relative to the desired learning process and the expected outcome of that process. This paper presents a model which was developed relative to the development, use and evaluation of interactive spaces for playful learning. However, the model has a more generic value as it has been used in learning situations where other forms of resources and/or methods have been used. Thus, the general results upon which the present model is created, indicate that a playful learning tool may be construed by an open-ended design, in the sense that its (im)material affordances should in a flexible way support inclusion of different forms of emergent interaction and forms of play. Classifying Shop Signs: Open Card Sorting of Bengaluru Shop Signs (India) Any Classification into categories aids in retrieving information. It develops a system for an object or phenomena. Hence, a classification of shop signs would provide an informed view about the system of elements that form the identity of a shop sign. The Philosophy of Classification as explained by Ereshefsky [1] brings to light three kinds of paradigms: Essentialism Sorts, Cluster Analysis and Historical classification. This study investigates the relevance of creating categories through cluster analysis. The analysis helps collate the pragmatic approach applied by the viewers of the shop signs. How people classify shop signboards mentally? What clues they use to attach qualities or concepts with a shop sign? Applying the method of Open Card Sorting [2] increased the analytical scope about the new values attached with the identities represented on these shop signs through text, images and materials. There is a paucity of published research in favour of the above statement. Therefore, this paper is a sincere attempt to substantiate the benefits of arriving at new categories via Open Card Sorting. This method provided the participants to design their own labels and classification structure for the given shop signs. A group of 30 participants (15 designers and rest 15 from other professions) underwent Open Card Sorting exercise. With formal instructions about card sort method, every participant was asked to ‘think aloud’ in order to resolve the 90 cards puzzle. Additionally, two standard questions regarding good and bad signs in the picture cards were asked. Around 20 new categories could be accumulated in the SPSS software. The viewers did not categorise total 10 cards of the 90 into any label(s). Cluster Analysis of this data gave rise to new classes/genres of these shop signs. It also clustered those cards that were considered good and bad shop signs. It is a unique study to know how people view, read and form opinions about shop signs. Results of this study can be used to inform the designers about the new features/qualities of the content and form observed by viewers along with their opinions on good and bad signs. Therefore, these insights would be the essential parameters in terms of elements of design and related qualities that sign designers should apply in the design of shop signs. Legal Networks: Visualising the Violence of the Law Data visualisation techniques have been used as a means to critique society and in particular capitalism. The possibilities for interaction with data and its malleability in digital form make the internet an effective site for the technique. Art online that employs data visualisation is commonly approached in terms of the understanding that the data may bring and its aesthetic appeal. However, I propose that the impact of a work may also be engaged with in terms of the interface that it provides, which enables interaction with the data. In this chapter, I explore this possibility through an analysis of the artwork They Rule, which visualises data about legal relationships. I propose its interactive interface provides a context for accessing data in a way that directs attention to the contingency of the legal system that permits the generation of the data visualised. In the process, I argue that They Rule may be understood to invite a critical engagement with the constructed nature of social systems, such as the law, and how they seek to justify their foundation and maintain their validity. Evaluating Creativity This chapter explores the concept of evaluation and its potential ­contribution to creativity. The particular focus is on evaluation within those areas of creative practice where the interaction between human beings and digital systems is a central goal. A multi-dimensional model of creativity is introduced that provides a holistic framework for evaluating the actors and elements in creativity. The approach is informed by studies arising from practice-based research, a form of research adopted by creative practitioners for whom the artifact, for example an artwork, is a central concern. The domain from which the ideas and examples are derived is the interactive digital arts, a vibrant, emerging field that affords rich opportunities for interaction design to explore criteria for evaluation arising directly from designing interactive systems that engage people in creative ways. The Innovation Telehospice System in Taiwan: A Home-Based Hospice Care Service Application Cancer is one of the important health care issues and has been the major leading cause of mortality in Taiwan. Hospice care is another medical option other than the curative treatments for terminal cancer patients. It promotes patient/family-centered care that is palliative, holistic and interdisciplinary. About 60 % of cancer patients preferred that home as the place of death. One of the major approaches of hospice care is to allow the terminal cancer patient to remain at home as long as possible, and using the hospital based care when the situation is absolutely necessary. The fear of not having enough support networks in the skills and knowledge of care at home is one of the most common reasons for terminal cancer patient with stable condition who refused discharge from hospital in Taiwan. The purpose of this study was to apply the telehospice system for the home-based telehospice care. The system had integrated electronic medical records, information network communication and biosensor technology together. The study provided the innovation telehospice application which replaced the traditional home care but allowed the terminal cancer patients and their caregivers to receive additional support through this innovation service. The results indicated that the home based telehospice application did add some benefits to the patients and families who participated in this study. Implications In the previous three chapters, we have conducted a close reading of an array of digital media artifacts which belong to the basic-level categories including user interface, video game, and digital art. These three commonly separate groups of artifacts generally contrast with each other in terms of both the creator’s motivation and the consumer’s expectation, but the works included in the corpus resonate in the pursuit of liveliness. As the analyses in previous chapters have shown, the properties of these artifacts with respect to the four qualitative variables exemplify the principles of technological liveliness. They are able to immerse their users in a virtual environment with both primary and secondary liveliness; they entail coupling and/or sustaining patterns of engagement that match users’ bodily motion and perception, resulting in a sense of intimacy; they anchor sensation for immediate conceptual blends yielding embodied concepts of virtual space, followed by elaboration of metaphorical blends; they generate output on the fly and in real time, supporting users to explore diverse possibilities in outcomes. In short, they all rely on animated phenomena to give human users immersive, familiar, embodied, evocative, and divergent kinds of experience. This study is not intended to be an exhaustive survey of all digital media artifacts, and inevitably there are many other salient examples that demonstrate comparable values in those four variables. Proactive Home Furnishings: Inspiring from Interactive Art for Designing Functional Aesthetics in a Space This paper presents our vision of the futuristic product. Proactive Home Furnishings allows user to realize (useful) information embedded of physical objects and/or on the top of architectural surfaces. Proactive Home Furnishings also display as interactive art form through the used of interactive techniques and computer graphics in an augmented physical object. The goal of Proactive Home Furnishings is to create the combination between both the digital aesthetics and the functional information, as well as seamless with living environment in a soothing way. This paper describes five interactive artworks used biomimetic perspective to develop the interaction feature - MSOrgm, Lbskeletons, Portrait of Dandelion, Artificial Phototropism, River Space. We treat them as pioneers to investigate the ongoing relation between the user and the home furnishings in a future living. Human Computation in the Wild One of the backbones of human society has been finding ways to organize human labor to achieve desired outcomes. The advent of computing has allowed us to bring to bear the ideas and tools of computing to this task, giving rise to what we are now calling “human computation.” Unlike mechanical computers, which are sufficiently developed and formalized that we can write down on paper an abstract representation of an algorithm and have reasonable expectations about its behavior, human computation bottoms out at fallible, unpredictable people, and, at least at present, no amount of talking or theorizing replaces the need to see what happens when you pull people together in some new way in service of some human-computation-based effort. We’re still in the early years of human computation, and our growing understanding of the field is occurring by people building real systems with real people achieving real outcomes. Evolving Glitch Art In this paper we introduce Glitch art as a new representation in Evolutionary Art. Glitch art is a recent form of digital art, and can be considered an umbrella term for a variety of techniques that manipulate digital images by altering their digital encoding in unconventional ways. We gathered a number of basic glitch operations and created a ‘glitch recipe’ which takes a source image (in a certain image format, like jpeg or gif) and applies one or more glitch operations. This glitch recipe is the genotype representation in our evolutionary GP art system. We present our glitch operations, the genotype, and the genetic operators initialisation, crossover and mutation. A glitch operation may ‘break’ an image by destroying certain data in the image encoding, and therefore we have calculated the ‘fatality rate’ of each glitch operation. A glitch operation may also result in an image that is visually the same as its original, and therefore we also calculated the visual impact of each glitch operation. Furthermore we performed an experiment with our Glitch art genotype in our unsupervised evolutionary art system, and show that the use of our new genotype results in a new class of images in the evolutionary art world. Human Nonverbal Behaviour Understanding in the Wild for New Media Art Over the course of the London 2012 Olympics a large public installation took place in Central London. Its premise was to enable members of the public to express themselves by controlling the lights around the rim of the London Eye. The installation’s design and development was undertaken as a collaborative project between an interactive arts studio and researchers in the field of affective and behavioural computing. Over 800 people participated, taking control of the lights using their heart rates and hand gestures. This paper approaches nonverbal and affective behaviour understanding for new media art as a case study, and reports the design of this installation and the subsequent analysis of over one million frames of physiological and motion capture data. In doing so it sheds light on how the intersection of affective and behavioural computing and new media art could be beneficial to both researchers and artists. Transfer and Translation This chapter makes key references to my PhD study and my postgraduate supervision experiences in art and design, particularly of creative practice-led research projects. While I teach and research in a Western context today, I am yet influenced by how I was brought up, in a British-colonised Chinese community in Hong Kong; by how I became acculturated to the Western-dominated, multicultural society in Aotearoa/New Zealand; and by the thinking of Chinese or Asian postgraduate thesis candidates. Research on Art Teaching Methods Modern of Multimedia Technology Based on SPSS Modern art teaching pays most attention to art students’ art creative thinking and their thinking development, promoting an innovative art teaching method. Modern multimedia technology to art teaching courseware design is the use of modern computer digital processing technology and sound image audio-visual technology, and multimedia computer technology platform as the center will teach art professional  teaching design, art language, art graphics, art color, and other computer media information that are all combined, forming modern art teaching tools of having modern multimedia techniques. Aiming at the higher art education teacher research, the data statistical analysis derives that in the art of teaching ways, using modern multimedia art teaching is a way to obtain teaching effect obviously improved. Encoded Thoughts: Writing Code as an Art Practice This paper is a reflexion on the role that code writing is presently assuming in the field of visual expression and art making. Drawing on methods of analysis already studied and applied to the processes of artistic expression using conventional means and techniques, this study crosses over to the new field of code art. The development of a visual discourse for self expression using traditional art methods is approached as a bridge for the understanding of the same process when code writing is the elected art practice. The observation and registration of the processes of aesthetic choices and decision making followed by the author during the development of a piece of code art, is taken as an example to clarify the visual concepts approached in this paper. The Creation of V-fold Animal Pop-Up Cards from 3D Models Using a Directed Acyclic Graph Pop-up cards are an interesting form of paper art with intriguing geometrical properties. It is labor-intensive and requires a high level of skill to generate two-dimensional objects that pop-up into realistic 3D objects. However, this special feature makes the design procedure of a pop-up card challenging. This paper proposes a novel algorithm to create a v-fold pop-up card from a 3D model using a directed acyclic graph. The algorithm computes a class of elements containing planar pieces and connections that approximate an input 3D geometry. Moreover, the pop up card is foldable, stable, and intersection-free when open and closed. The proposed method is demonstrated with various paper pop-ups, and experimental examples are presented. An Architecture for Community-Based Curation and Presentation of Complex Digital Objects Preservation of complex, non-linear digital objects such as digital art or ancient computer environments has been a domain reserved for experts until now. Digital culture, however, is a broader phenomenon. With the introduction of the so-called Web 2.0 digital culture became a mass culture. New methods of content creation, publishing and cooperation lead to new cultural achievements. Therefore, novel tools and strategies are required, both for preservation but in particular for curation and presentation.We propose a scaleable architecture suitable to create a community driven platform for preservation and curation of complex digital objects. Further, we provide novel means for presenting preserved results including technical meta-data, and thus, allowing for public review and potentially further community induced improvements. The Sense Making Process in The Legible City Play has been intertwined with art for centuries although interactive arts seem to privilege this dimension in such ways that some artistic propositions became authentic open-ended games. This article explores the aesthetic experience with an interactive art installation called The Legible City. An empirical study was conducted using an Interpretative Phenomenological Analysis approach with the purpose to understand the influence of playfulness in the construction of meaning in The Legible City. Retro-Engineering: Wearable Sound Around the turn of the millennium reviewers began to take note that the marriage of dance and technology had produced a few significant stage works which startled audiences and drew attention to digital dance and interactivity in the theatre. Projections of virtual dancers appeared on screens in Merce Cunningham’s Hand-drawn Spaces and BIPED, emanations or graphic phantoms that fluttered in space while the real dancers performed the choreography on stage.1 In Ghostcatching, Bill T. Jones’s animated figure danced a virtual solo, at times alone and then with multiple copies of ‘Jones’ spawned from the data extracted (motion-captured) from the performer’s body. The virtual Jones was heard talking, grumbling, and singing, which gave the animation an eerie sense of surreality. In Trisha Brown’s how long does the subject linger at the edge of the volume…, the projected graphic creatures interacted with the dancers on stage as if drawn to the human bodies and their movement gestures. The jagged geometric creatures as such (irregular triangles, squares, rectangles, and lines) remained indeterminate images hovering between abstraction and figuration, unaware that they were acting. Yet the graphic phantoms, sometimes referred to as digital doubles, have become supplements, algorithmic emergences allowing us to reflect upon the mediations between analogue and digital systems, between bodies and technical beings. Study of Contemporary Artistic Design Based on Computer Technology With the development of technology, the computer technology has been used into more and more areas, which has changed human life significantly. Therefore, the application of computer technology in the arts is the fusion between art and technology, which has involved almost all areas of artistic designing. Computer has liberated people from the complicated physical labor and focused on creativity and design, meanwhile, the concept of art has undergone changes. The integration of multimedia images, sounds, text, animation, audio and even smell and other forms of communication has enriched the artistic language and expression and improved the infection of the works. It has also enabled more people to enter the design field, and has created numerous opportunities for employment and wealth producing. Practical Teaching Research of College Art Design This chapter came to a conclusion that the problem of Art Design teaching practical training can be attributed to the matter of teaching and learning by the collection and analyses of history and current situation of Art Design teaching practical training. In response to this reality, this chapter through the relevant information and survey of actual situation of teaching, tried to reveal the problems existing in China’s college Art Design Teaching Practice, in particular, the analysis about poor practical ability, weak ability of adaption caused by the unreasonable practical curriculum, a serious shortage of practical course, bias between practice direction and professional direction. Finally, it gives the suggestive ideas and education should first train the ability of creative thinking, second practical teaching link is the basis of cultivating creative thinking, precede the teaching reform to accommodate needs of social development.